

1:12 PM
Without the presence of the new rail line. 

Bless me. 

Bless me, Uh, and then partnering with the private developers in developing the lane And then selling the completed development at the fuel market value with the presence of the new rail line, And it does not sell development rights to other private developers, But they partner creating the partnership with the property developers. 

So it remains the full control of the lane and sells the completed units, Uh. 

One of the examples in Hong Kong, the second one. 

It's integrated land Readjustment and urban Redevelopment. 

So, Uh, practices. 

There are some And a government buys some online from the owners building owners and they readjusting the land, reploating the web, and they will share the full moon profit for the Urban development in the future, But there are requirements for the project approval and apply for the national succeedy, uh, the first one is the project area must be designed as an organized development promotion area. 

The second one is destination as a high intensity and use area. 

The third one vulnerability to fire hazards and improving the efficiency of menus. 

This is the practices of people at best. 

Grandpa will capture in Tokyo And for the devil. 

There's one In the Philippine country called air ride cells, so the private online owner cannot freely develop air rights above a certain floor area ratio without paying the cause of the impact of the air ride use. 

So, Uh, the landowners should contribute For the infrastructure development and construction costs in proportion to the volume of their air ride use as higher distance densities Acquire additional infrastructure investment. 

This is called the certificate of additional construction potential that are solved by the auction As attractable Financial Security so they can build if they have a certificate from the Government. 

This is the case studies of theory in Southeast Asia. 

Cities that are considered as a successful. 

Uh, the key point? 

Uh, the key point Why they, uh, they'll be in Singapore successful, is integrated land use planning, high density development of pedestrian family design approach and preserving green spaces And the second one. 

The case studies in Jakarta, Uh, this is not really successful, Uh, for the. 

Positive Keeping from the theory in Jakarta is Public transportation integration between MRT, MRT, commuter line, and vrd system, and also the high land value area. 

The increasing property value near Transit corridors and stations. 

Is one of representing Jakarta, attempt to solve congestion and mobile equality through integration. 

But The last value created by the transient is mainly captured by commercial development. 

While vocability and social inclusion still or uneven, So Translate investments help increases the mobility and accessibility we know that. 

But investment in public transit, also increasing the property value Nearest the transit corridors and station, which is causing the racing housing costs, the rental prices and making a higher property value and gentrification for the low income residents. 

So, for the conclusion is 30 Theory in precious line value. 

Uh, many cities like, especially in the open countries, still grow with pedestrian, Nexus, informal economies, and social inclusion. 

Uh, many cities like, especially in the open countries, still grow with pedestrian, Nexus, informal economies, and social inclusion. 

And also, if it's, uh, the second question is, is vocability treated as infrastructure? 

And also, if it's, uh, the second question is, is vocability treated as infrastructure Or SLF overspace into? 

B. 

Okay, let's combine. 

It is not, it was compressed of Yeah, uh, University. 

Uh, so we can see from the left picture is original. 

Typical TV TLD mode that we can see how to transfer a single GLD station to the CD area, but the action test case we can see that different kind of building places with different kinds of topic methods can consist of huge classes for our community, which combined with the railways high speed Road station airport. 

Also, the observation and also the commercial and other matching kind of crucial. 

And this is the picture of the overviewworks is. 

So, what we talk about is about we can use the multiplicative models to get to guide the expansion of your disservice and fertility can, but nobody reach out to talked about is not only reference to the single field along the community will activate the whole of the city area And for different different demands, so everyone can be paying for the last part. 

Like, like we just saw before, we can say different kinds of terms located in each other area, so it impose different kind of speed of doing like different kind of space. 

Like, uh, the the last mile and the floor is enough. 

Also, in for example for the fast moving online business coming to get the acceleration with a human area, so the business, business, and power of this kind of cool room is faster, and they more compact directly, so they might be some sky called computer Lexus for Ms. 

And for maybe some tourists because of something of the airport and others station, so there is will come here. 

But the tourist welcome screen is less slower than the business business, the normal residents, so it might be more of a kind of some slower careers for the right underground, and also some, uh, Thing on the ground that they can get into things immersed to the city called the residential company. 

We used to talk about this and getting the different part of the conversations. 

The whole area is single, Uh, investigate for the center qt area of the investigator, our real estate online with government, family, and Council. 

The local investigations together for the outside of the center to the central area Created by the local investment platform that made up maybe made up of real estate company and some investigation and for the cards. 

Like many countries, I think the operations It's emotion and diplines like, including the past bus and natural operating company and also some other economics inclusive population. 

We consist of these areas operation construction, so we can say that the TLD Gap is different is not only focused on one investing. 

It is from a system to this area. 

Also, just some also give other the outside of the community area. 

Like we said, the wide range of themed area examples in case. 

And also, even though there's a few different matters, maybe in hotel area. 

They were also from the drawbacks for who, actually, because unfortunately, in this area, there were some actual drawments for for me. 

But when I'm experience there, for example, the weather in Shanghai is not that good. 

So, the man always make the massive communities towards Malta. 

Also, the complex the different system also make people always and the large scale of the transaction, which also mention make transfer to the last one are more difficult. 

Like, we can see in the pictures very few things. 

Also, that channel Frequency bra? 

Also that channel Frequency braids. 

So, I think it's also the problems that, in this case, And the second case, we will focus on the evolution development. 

We'll see if fertility developed area is just what direction or it can be reverse and prepared. 

I will just need the case of the complexity statement in Tokyo. 

We can see that the development of these muscle settings store the homepage station in Tokyo. 

Actually, it's a long history utility. 

We can say that in the Asian time is just, uh, if it consists surrounding the over there with a huge market in the time up here. 

So, it's an original model traffic. 

And then, in 1930s, the traditional the TV Was created in this area, but they also caused a lot of other like that in the city is separated from each other and nowadays, and it has creator. 

This area is focusing on amongst them to combined from our business districts Center, we can see from the map of the first impression of this area is. 

People's activation, also, not only just on the ground, but is. 

When our body built and the yellow block is starting to develop it, and the the mobile is the subway station and see all the developments are, and uh. 

When our body built and the yellow block is starting to develop it, and the the mobile is the subway station and see all the developments are. 

And, uh, So, so we can see from this that the foreign And also the development of these student is necessary to remember from the people who spend models just put industry inside, so they use two strategies to make more closer to the local people. 

One is the first floor of the building, like the network, the station, the network of the station level, and another is to respect, not just through them. 

The old looking Squad precise? 

But it also calls the important in every three decreases, right? 

We said before. 

Learning about song mentioned Church application. 

This also caused the gentrification of the area because the four areas because construction is invaded by some large developers in the government, so the residential of the investigation benefits. 

So, it also like this. 

The dealership from our traditional also to save America high quality residential District, So it also later we discuss. 

What are the citizens to focus on the future? 

What are the citizens to focus on the future? 

And this is all about the single station, but the joint or joint participation with different villages, but also the typical issues, including growing Earl Dynamic system from various types and types of notations. 

And also, I want to be conserved is all about some issues regarding, like, fairness. 

The general education for the future Sit there. 

Um, let's see. 

Can you both of you have raised some really? 

Can you both of you have raised some really? 

Um, well, first of all, good summary. 

Wow, good. 

Good, good questions that you have asked, um, let's. 

Let's, um, let's discuss one by one, and these are very good questions. 



1:33 PM
And can, we can consider, remember, just just want to make sure. 

What do you think the key differences are? 

What do you think the key differences are? 

It's as simple as Distance, I guess, right? 

So adjacent is basically it's right there at the station, right? 

It's connected, right way to the station, but Transit oriented oriented development could mean that the actual development is not right at the station or next to the station, but maybe it's, you know, 50 meters away 100 meters 200, 500, so they're kind of almost the same. 

The difference is, is how you view the program in general? 

We want to make sure that at least I would like you to distinguish between the concept of Program. 

We want to make sure that at least I would like you to distinguish between the concept of Program and project because I mean, if you pick, you know, all these Keys Policy is very abstract. 

You know at this sort of high level, right? 

I mean, it's kind of interesting to see political campaigns and some, um. 

I mean, it's kind of interesting to see political campaigns and some, um, You know? 

Some candidates, I would say, I have 250 policies. 

I mean, people Define it differently. 

I mean, people Define it differently, But um, That the the crust of the issue is basically, you know, you have something that's more abstract like policy statement, and then you have something a little bit more concrete, and then all the way down to the level of implementation of projects right now. 

As an urban strategy, you've raised some really good questions there, both both of you first. 

As an urban strategy, you've raised some really good questions there, both both of you first. 

Um, why Tod now? 

Y, t o d? 

Now, I mean, you said, because of congestion, What else Do you think Tod could bring in into, you know, our sort of Visions about future cities To solve the congestion problem to make it more sustainable. 

Yeah, increational sport. 



1:37 PM
Rail, Um, we hope that people are shifting away from automobiles. 

Now all of our cities, unfortunately, You know, I recall, oh, not just Chinese cities, but also, Um, you know, more recently, would be Vietnam, Um, you know? 

If if you had been to Vietnam, you know, um, Even 10 years ago, 15 years ago, Most people were on the bicycle. 

In fact, you know, I went to Your area. 

Your case study of Shanghai, um, literally. 

25 no, actually, 30 years ago, probably before you were born anyway. 

Putong was still like just one building, you know. 

Yeah, I was, like, oh my God, everybody was on the bicycle. 

It's amazing, right? 

A lot of people were still on bicycles. 

A lot of people were still on bicycles, But now, so many people are on, you know, motorcycles, obviously everywhere in Vietnam now, but also automobile. 

It's on private cars, granted, you know. 

They shifted quite quickly to electric vehicles. 

Now, we'll come back to that conversation. 

But, but what's really happening everywhere is, is the fact that all automobiles has dominated, Um, you know, the urban Mobility landscape, But we also know that automobile is not so great, right? 

Why do we need the D, not just the T? 

Why do we need the D? 

Not just the T. 

We know that the t is important in trying to shift people away from the a the automobile, but why did he, though? 

It's not just value. 

Capture value capture is more like the instrument part of it. 

Why the development? 

Why do we have far the floor area? 

Why do we have far the floor area Ratio or other kinds of controls? 

What is the target of our urban planning measures and instruments? 

What is the target of our urban planning measures and instruments? 

It's also empty. 

One of the readings. 

Can you guess It's density correct? 

We are trying to manipulate density, urban density, right, and, and the development, in fact. 

Strategy. 

At the moment, it could be a population density. 

It could be building density. 

It could be, you know, Transportation density. 

And, you know, um, cats, dogs, and whatever densities we want to deal with tree density, right? 

So, the deep heart is actually about density. 

So, then why, why? 

Transient is a keyword For density allocation and. 

Transient is a keyword For density allocation and strategy. 

Yyt, not a Compared to cities. 

One that's more automobile oriented, and the other is Transit oriented, How the densities are different. 

I'm sure you've seen American Hollywood movies. 

I'm sure you've seen American Hollywood movies. 

Um, you have, like, the downtown super high density, Right, all high-rise buildings in the middle, and then it drops quickly, right? 

It drops, because people live in the suburbs, right? 

So, I'm sure you've seen this density Maps comparing different cities around the world, and you will see that places like, you know, European cities, for example. 

And then, towards the the suburbs, the density drops quickly, so the overall density of automobile-based cities is very low. 

The density drops quickly, so the overall density of automobile-based cities is very low In general. 

You know, in in those, uh, city-states? 

You know in in those, uh, city-states, Um, but not state. 

So, the idea is that? 

You can see that you know you can see the, uh? 

You can see that you know. 

You can see the, uh, Yeah. 

The the differences in terms of density now, but Think about transit oriented development, our Transit oriented City. 

It's like Tokyo, a little bit of Bangkok. 

You can see here and there, but not so much. 

But other cities that you think are very Transit oriented. 

Maya, do you think Paris is transit-oriented development? 

Maya, do you think Paris is transit-oriented development? 

Yep, chicken. 

Yep, chicken. 

Protect the transit, right? 

Well, Gutenberg is unique. 

It's probably the longest. 

It's probably the longest Cheer up, maybe? 

But interesting, Gutenberg is also the home of Vol. 

But interesting. 

Um, so Gutenberg has a lot of little islands in different places, and um. 

Um, so Gutenberg has a lot of little islands in different places. 

And um, You can actually use a card. 

It's a common ticket, uh, for 90 minutes, and once you run it, you can go anywhere for 90 minutes, and once you're on it, you can actually go even Beyond 90 minutes. 

European city is different from. 

Floors of residential, uh units or buildings, my Apartments, and this is not just, you know, a former um socialist, communist countries like Russia, or those places where you know it's out of the public housing is already very dense. 

Um, but think about other cities, though. 

Um, but think about other cities, though, What do you think there are like in terms of trans density of Transit oriented cities? 

Yes, so the clusters around where? 

Yes, so the clusters around where I wrapped around the station around the stations. 

Yeah, so and and a fascinating being case, surprisingly, is Vancouver, Um. 

Also, I mean, you know, the fun part, by the way, I'm working, um, on research or work related to cities. 

Is that you have to travel? 

Other than being a movie star, you know? 

Other than being a movie star, you know, Um, Urban times is really fun because you get to see different Are ways of doing things Transit oriented development in. 

Well, obviously, you know, the suburbs and extrover Shanghai is the same. 

And then, boom, you see, like, 30, um, story. 

And then boom, you see, like 30, um, story Buildings everywhere Around back around The stations, so you can take the train like, you know, it's almost like a regional commuter train out, and then you go out for like half an hour. 

You see, like skyscrapers around the city, and once you're out of of that trans Tod Zone, it's all flat. 

And, you know, um, you know, a single, Uh, uh, detached houses. 

So, clust. 

And, you know, um, you know, a single, Uh, are detached houses. 

So, cluster is the key, right? 

Singapore is primarily high density. 

So that's, that's different. 

So that's that's different. 

Different Urban density patterns, but yet it goes back to your point correctly, Um clusters, so you think of clusters now. 

If one of the um, the World Banks A report probably a while ago 15 years ago, so Was pointing out to this interesting concept, Um, Between Density and congestion, You know. 

Because think about it density in Paris is actually very high in the middle. 

Because think about it. 

Density in Paris is actually very high in the middle. 

Why? 

Because you have people living in sort of, you know, at least five-story High apartment complexes, Right? 

And you go to. 

Maybe you know the new the new um CBD By the phones, right? 

You see skyscrapers there, but not the rest of Paris, right? 

But then you go out a little bit. 

You see public housing, right? 

Super tall public housing In different parts of Paris, but Bangkok, You know, I live on Circleville, just a few steps away from the stations. 

You already see mid-rise, um, not even men like you see, like single home family, uh single family houses, right? 

That's super low! 

So, that points to the fact that you can separate. 

So that points to the fact that you can separate The two concepts there And just tap Urban environment and high density, Right? 

A lot of times. 

Um, people walk in Bangkok, and if your eyes feel that Becca is congested. 

Why? 

Because the sidewalks are narrow, right? 

Not a lot of green space, not a lot of public space, but if you look at just the density right, you go to New York, New York is probably denser than at least in the inner part of New York. 

I mean, granted, if you go to the suburbs of New York, do the same. 

I mean, like very Suburbia, and you know, American Suburbia, but the the interesting part, though, is how you design the whole structure of the city, right? 

That's, that's where a strategy comes into play, not just development strategy, but density strategy. 

Okay, so, so think of your cities, you know, the the cities that you're familiar with and think of what kind of density strategy The city has And think about how Transit oriented development could make it different. 

I mean, obviously, those of you from already Transit oriented development cities like, you know, Chinese cities, and, and if you've seen Tokyo, those are super Transit oriented development already. 

So, that's different, right? 

What kind of density control do you think they're using now? 

What kind of density control do you think they're using? 

Now What strategy? 

The king of Bangkok, even. 

Do you think Bangkok has Tod, Oh, you say no? 

Okay, other people I, I'd like to see the idea. 

Well, we have to know Camp here Who accept. 

Who else would say Bengal Spirit DUD? 

You cannot just hide under the table now, because I see everybody here, um. 

Um, You have to tell. 

Um, You have to tell me why you think Bangkok is not Tod you first, and then over there, because you, he shook his head first. 

Okay, so I think Bangkok is not a Transit oriented because, Like, they have Transit, but they don't Orient themselves to a currency. 

Who are they? 

Yeah, the. 

Like the city itself does not plan to already sell. 

Well, who is the city? 

Let's be clear because you know your friend here, said, we're all friends now, except me, you're not your friend. 

Let's, let's be very precise in this class when you say name or when you say the city, because at first you say, they. 

Let's, let's be very precise in this class. 

When you say name, or when you say the city, because at first you say they, And then you say the city, all right, okay, the city is part of the day. 

Hey, who is the city, the platrick Center, the public sector? 

Well, it's pretty big. 

Yeah, be a little bit more focused. 

Be a little more focused. 

Yes, because the public sector could be Chiang Mai City government, Um, the, you know, Department of Public Works and City Planning. 



1:55 PM
It could be the ministry of. 

Education or who who's? 

The public sector Bangkok Metropolitan administrator, all right, good? 

So he's very specific there, the BMA. 

So, what he's saying is that I will defend the BMA later, but what he's saying is that the BMA is not trying to make it Transit oriented development. 

His argument is that, um, Guys, I have to repeat you because otherwise, you know, people cannot hear. 

Um, And sorry for always planning here. 

Ah, not just mansplaining, they're always planning. 

Um, the fact that we have the transit systems, but you don't see the development, right? 

That's that is because the BMA is not doing its job or not trying to do Transit oriented development. 

All right, that's one argument. 

Yes, please. 

Yeah. 

Yeah, There's like, big stops. 

Yeah, That was like, obviously intended. 

They need to like increase intensity around the stations. 

Yeah, By their either empty or underage. 

Okay, maybe there's like, that's also failures. 

The private developers will try to build something around transestations in non-distability. 

The private developers will try to build something around transestations in non-distability. 

Ah, have not done a lot of work, by the way. 

For those of you who are not from here, um, While you're here, take a train ride. 

It's pretty fun, uh, you know, all the way to bangai, which is like, this is still like, Bangkok, you know, or any edge of the city is fascinating because you, you asked the question about teody. 

Like, Why do we have a station here? 

Yeah, right, because in some places, it's so far away In. 

In Shanghai, It's fascinating because it's part of a bigger Urban Urban or a spatial development strategy. 

I think it's called urbanization of rural areas I don't know in Chinese, but basically, And I remember going from Shanghai to two hours, and then along the way In the middle of the fields. 

Like, you can see, you see, like, you know, agricultural, uh, Farms In the middle of it? 

It was so good that would feed people from that cluster, and there must be at least like 10 000 people living in that cluster. 

It was so good that would feed people from that cluster, and there must be at least like 10 000 people living in that cluster, Right? 

But why, they call it? 

But why they call it, You know, bigger urbanization of rural areas because they, the government had to buy the land from rural villagers, right, and then used that land for urban development around the transit stations. 

The rural villagers who used to be Farmers were willing to sell the last cell the right to the lamb. 

Strictly speaking, you know, nobody owns the land, but this all the right to the lamb. 

And then they got houses like. 

We have the trousers. 

We have the money. 

We don't have to be farmers anymore, but the city were able to acquire the land for Urban Development. 

It's the same model in Seoul. 

If you go to Korea, Um, Um, you will see the same very same model. 

Soul is so big, it's the same. 

You go out for like an hour and a half and boom. 

See high rise, all right, so that's exactly transparated the volume at DC. 

That's not happening here, right? 

You don't see that. 

Well, let's, let's hear from other people. 

Why? 

You're not saying that Transit we're into the ball, and it's really happening in Bangkok And even, yeah, Okay, yes. 

So you're basically qualifying there. 

You see, you're basically, if sorry, that again, I'm explaining, not just landsplaining. 

You're basically saying that Wait a minute. 

But it's uneven. 

You could be able to do this. 

Um, before I let me let me qualify, can you, um? 

Um, before I let me let me qualify. 

Can you? 

Um, Can you give some examples of where you see high rise density and round Transit stations in Bangkok, A hybrid? 

Yeah, like higher densities in Bangkok, For example, And all that. 

Yeah, okay, so that's one right, if if if I were to help Maria Go to, It's in a South Southern part of it. 

It's about, Uh, 13 stops from Zion Square Towards True digital Park. 

It's insane because you see, like, high-rise buildings around Buena Vijay area in terms of area and like 50 floors 64s and stuff like that it's it's insane, so? 

It's insane because you see, like, high-rise buildings around Buena Vijay area in terms of area and like 50 floors 64s and stuff like that it's it's insane. 

Unfortunately, we're not, um, you know? 

You have to. 

You have to Go out And you see what Maya is saying. 

That's not just a soul. 

And you know, this part of the inner core of the of the city when you go to bunnivity and South commit, even though the commit goes all the way to Cambodia. 

By the way, so I don't know what they mean by South School, but that's another story in itself. 

Um, So that would justify what my essay You see some places of Transit oriented development by private developers, even it's by the CP group mqdc and all that, Right? 

All right, and the BMA is not doing any of that. 

The BMA is not doing it. 

It's all about the private sector there Now. 

Okay, Any? 

Okay, Any other reasons Now? 

Now you have Maya sort of sort of the middle. 

Yeah, sorry. 

Yeah, sorry. 

Okay, for if we we talk about the land, Transit land to the death of his Linux. 

If we jump past like water, a walker toy, that's interesting. 

What did you do you talk about, like, I can't say, um, in the hotels and in the past, right? 

But that's, that's super interesting because it goes back to the, um, the question about the right, um, was, you know, obviously, it's water Or inside development, so I guess we have to. 

We have to have the Bot then, what right now? 

What water oriented development? 

Um, was it clusters, though? 

Um, was it clusters, though, So the pattern of water development water-oriented development would probably be like Road Automobile oriented development, because you can build anything along along the line along the along the river, right along the canal. 

So I mean back home was probably water oriented development. 

You're right, but that was a long time ago, though I don't. 

I don't. 

The most recent one would be by the river, Right? 

I mean, you see a lot more fancy hotels, condos, stuff like that Department stores on the Jaffreya River. 

So, So it's more like waterfront development. 

But but there's, there's one key issue that we haven't discussed in you whenever you raised. 

That question is about value capture, right? 

We'll come back to that, though, because Value captured and water brought into the elements are slightly different because the canals were kind of there, and obviously we have man-made canals made before, so you can argue full value capture there. 

Um, but it's slightly different. 

Yeah, but we'll come back to the the, um, the value capture part a little bit because it's, it's important, Anything else. 

Maybe, Okay, Maybe? 

Okay, So? 

Yes, I would like the government as well. 

Yes, I would like the government as well. 

Right, Right? 

So, so yes, so argument your argument if I may. 

You basically said, yeah, I'm kind of buying the idea of that, Maya said. 

You're checking inside, Um? 

You're checking inside. 

Um, you're the you're the, uh, you're the undecided order. 

You're worth it. 

Now, you're shifting. 

You're shifting to, like, yeah, actually, I see a little bit of the TOD happening, but it's mostly private developers. 

We do see a high-rise buildings popping up around transit stations in.com. 

Different between the Todd is ish that you see that card versus? 

Different between the Todd is ish that you see that card versus, Um, the tods that you frame showed of Shanghai and Tokyo. 

What are the key differences you see? 

You can propensity. 

I mean, you know, from the Quake case studies there? 

Yeah, What? 

What are the differences quickly that you can see It? 

No, no, it's not just density, though, because if you look at the density As density, right? 

Oh, yeah, of course, one, two. 

Oh forget it. 

Now, by the way, I remember in my undergrad doing my undergrad year, I remember a paper I wrote. 

Well, first, I traced history of the evolution of Tokyo Station. 

Well, first, I traced history of the evolution of Tokyo Station. 

The height was controlled, Right? 

It was controlled. 

I forgot, it's like, you know, 10 stories, and so it's like 30 to 33 something like that, um meters, and that's it. 

No taller buildings around, um, the station, Tokyo Station. 

And can you guess why? 

And this was back then. 

This was like 40 years ago. 

It's height control, but why height control? 

Sorry. 

Sorry, No, it's not sunlight. 

No, you guys think they're so practical. 

Be a little bit more white. 

It's Tokyo Station show the picture, please. 

Tokyo station. 

Let me have another. 

Guess What is the Heritage ish, but it's beyond that? 

Go back a little bit, one more, one more. 

The mat look at the map. 

Let's look at the map, but the emerald, exactly, and go back. 

Go back. 

You have the mat. 

Yes, I did The castle, Right? 

I mean, it's practically like, if you're gonna Increase the height of buildings around the Grand Palace in Bangkok, Even though I have a story to tell, and this is fascinating. 

You can, actually, as an urban strategy planning students, you should have all these little anecdotal stories that normal tour guides cannot tell. 

All right, if you stand on this side of the prinacon part of Bangkok. 

If you look at the Grand Palace Or somewhere, you know, in the old town, look to the other side of the river. 

You see these two huge condoms in the back. 

It was on the other side of of the city And those, by the way, I'll tell you another story is by the company that developed, um, its landed houses. 

So, it's the terminal 21 owner. 

Anyway, those condoms were built, Um, without considering the fact that it would create some visual pollution, right? 

But it was not part of the the height control because the height control was only this side of the river around the background Palace, right? 



2:11 PM
So you see that around the Grand Palace, the the temples? 

Buildings there, right? 

The tallest one would be the Golden Mountain, right? 

If you hadn't been, it's kind of fun to climb up, right? 

That was actually the highest point of Bangkok way back then, right? 

So no buildings were built higher Than whatever the height control, but the tonbury side on the other side of the river. 

The height control was not part of tombly. 

Yeah, so they were able to build those two tall buildings right, and people were freaking out. 

Like, cuz, you can no longer take a photo of the Grand Palace without having those two ugly buildings there. 

No, it's. 

It's the outer side, um, it's um, yeah, Yeah, um, it's called. 

I forgot the name of the two towels. 

All right, guys, two white buildings, yeah. 

So, so I can show you a picture. 

But anyway, we're not talking about Bangkok ish. 

The reason why skyscrapers in Tokyo were not around? 

The reason why skyscrapers in Tokyo were not around Tokyo Station back then right was because of the height control. 

That's why they allowed, Uh, tall buildings around Shinjuku, Shibuya, and other. 

No, it's right, because they're like, you can build tall buildings elsewhere, just not around here. 

The interesting story. 

One important institution around there. 

One important institution around there. 

There's a palace there. 

There's a palace there, You know that, right? 

Oh, you don't know that. 

Okay, you don't know. 

A palace behind, um, uh, say, um, Sam Paragon. 

So So, Yeah, it's right behind. 

Sam kapinski, Oh, you don't notice. 

There's, it's so green there, All right. 

Anyway, There's a Palestine. 

There's a law of the height control that you cannot build anything higher than certain you know restrictive height around, Right? 

So that laws is interesting, because then we have quite a few high-rise buildings there, right? 

So that's kind of interesting, you know that things could be adjustable adjustable. 

I'm not going to the details, but the the whole area around Tokyo station was had that high control blocks. 

As you can see, Right? 

That came from Land Readjustment, um projects, Usually after the wall bar or World War II. 

Um, so they were able to do a lot of Land Readjustment so they could make it into blocks. 

But in any case, your presentations showed that the before and after a little bit right after they decided look. 

We don't care just all right, so they were able to build a lot of high-rise, um, buildings around, not just Tokyo Station, but also nihombashi. 

And I think, um, Yeah, uh, Um, it's Christian Myers a little later, but usually this area, right, right? 

So anyway. 

So, What are other factors that you could explain? 

What? 

What? 

What do you see is the key difference Between? 

What do you see is the key difference Between here? 

What your friend has presented And Bangkok, And you can think of, you know, a lot of songs As well. 

God is different between what's happening in those places versus what you see here. 

Can you go to the Shanghai one? 

Can you go to the Shanghai one And one, um? 

Oh yeah, this one. 

This is Hong Shell, right? 

Home show is, yeah, okay, yeah. 

So, what? 

What do you see there and what you don't see here? 

It's the plan. 

It's the district level plan. 

It's a third year. 

He can probably explain, um, to you later, but okay. 

He can probably explain um to you later, but okay In planning At least in Thailand. 

You have the comprehensive plan, which is a city level plan basically decides on the structure of the city And the land use strategies. 

Land use plan, Basically, where you know the sub Center should be where the CBDs should be blah, blah, blah, right? 

That's a very sort of structural level plan. 

That's what we call comprehensive platform. 

It's the same. 

It's very, it's very American by the way. 

If you, if you find I, I give that lecture in Cornell, um? 

Um, But it's about. 

It's basically it's it's, it's project plan. 

It's basically it's it's. 

It's project plan, Right? 

You need a program plan, Uh, program level plan. 

It goes back to our question earlier to you two weeks ago. 

That's not the house that used to be there. 

That's not the house that used to be there, And thank you for preparing the slides for me. 

I don't have to prepare this life, so you, I can use your slides to. 

To talk, go to the the Japanese case of language adjustment. 

Please, One more, um, one more sorry here. 

What you see is not just one plot. 

What you see is not just one plot, But in Bangkok, The projects that you tend to see it are one plot plan. 

If you're lucky enough to get a big plot, You can. 

If you're lucky enough to get a big plot, You can do something like one Bangkok. 

If you have enough money to buy large plots and put them together, You can, you know, like, um, through digital part? 

Okay, if you already have big land owner like a lot, you get Sam's Square and others again are building them Right. 

So, Transit oriented development. 

Vision Plan is a. 

So? 

So, In Bangkok, We don't have I, I want to avoid the word District because people would think of District as like, you know, the governmental district kind of thing. 

It's sort of Neighborhood level. 

Neighborhood is a little too small, but you know the area around station? 

Let's call the district, but not Watana District, right? 

So, the district level plan we don't have that, Right? 

But, in some cases, like, true digital Parks, I am Square, you see a little bit of samyam happening Siloam all that. 

It's because the big land owners were able to acquire large pots of land and build something high. 

That's it, But in this case, it's not like, you know, the private, um developer. 

I think this in this case. 

In this case, it means so if you know some okay, Real Estate developer acquired the lamb and do everything like one Bangkok. 

Not that it uses coordination as a strategy. 

So, Coordination could be part of your strategy, Right? 

How would you make sure that there is coordinate coordination mechanism so that you can achieve the common vision and goals Right? 

So, in this particular case, Okay, it's. 

It's slightly different by, uh, from the the Shanghai case. 

Shanghai City Drive? 

But in this case, even though the Tokyo Metropolitan? 

But in this case, even though the Tokyo Metropolitan, The city Government, Even though it's a key player, it's not the one who's driving it, The the the driving force is basically the private developer working with the rails. 

The Um, the rail companies Okay in the area that's adjacent. 

Are you connected to the train stations you need direct Alliance you work with, But further away, It's you have to work with all the landowners there, right? 

That's why you need the common Vision, Right? 

And then you use coordination as the strategy, But you cannot do it by fault. 

Sorry, yes. 

Go ahead, Yeah, so that that goes back to, um, that goes back to governmental system here, right? 

Going back to this class systems governance lift experience, Right assistant, you coordinate the system infrastructure you coordinate, you know? 

It's very difficult, right? 

Economic systems, social system blah, blah, blah. 

Because the point of your that you said about, um, gentrification, because of Tod, is because the social systems are not considered part of the mobility system, Right? 

Because this coordination is political. 

Because everybody has his her their own interest. 

Because everybody has his her their own interest. 

Interest, right? 

How would you coordinate different interests Like building that coordinating mechanism is very difficult? 

And it's probably you know, as as difficult as I don't know dealing with, I don't know religion. 

I guess You know, because if people have different interests, how would you make sure that People get Jeff? 

The landowners want to build the highest as they want? 

The landowners want to build the highest as they want, But the city said, no, you cannot build higher than that. 

All right, one. 

And we're not talking about yet about the language adjustment. 

Is there a language adjustment? 

I think you have a library adjustment somewhere. 

Oh, was it yours. 

Oh, that's okay, yeah. 

We don't have to show, but anyway, the point is that the government has to or take the land For development Right, and the government here doesn't or Doesn't want to or doesn't have enough Level of power. 

But it's also not as? 

But it's also not as, Um, Coordinated as in the case of Um. 

I was, I'm just trying to think, like, the really good coordinating Mega like Japan. 

Japan relies a lot on coordinating mechanism. 

Now, Instead of you may not, may or may not have seen A case of Narita airport Narita airport when it was built, the government would take the lab literally. 

Take the lab from the people the residents For a long, long time Houses next to the runway Esa Narita inside Narita. 

It's because people were resisting becoming from taking the land from landowners. 

But then, when the court said, no, you cannot do that anymore. 

You have to compensate people. 

So, what happened One person resisted? 

And I remember seeing that that house On the runway, not the runway. 

The taxiway, right? 

It's shifted. 

The Japanese governments used to be able to just take the land, But after that, with, you know, civil participation and all that it became very difficult to take the land from the people, or, you know, appropriate the land from the people, so they had to rely on coordinating mechanism, Talking, talking, talking, talking, you know, that becomes the key, right? 

So, in the case of Bangkok, we're sort of in the middle Right in a sort of bad way, right? 

The government is not as strong, While the coordinating mechanism is not there yet. 

You need. 

It's hard to say the word you need because I think each city is unique. 



2:28 PM
But If you want to just? 

Lies the Tod cases. 

Let's, let's say, that's the good part first, right, because? 

Let's, let's say, that's the good part first, right? 

So first thing, first, good part building a lot. 

So, first thing first, good part building a lot, But the bad part is that they built only the transit systems, but they didn't think of Tod Versus in other places. 

Tod was already part of the idea, right? 

In the case of Japan, Let's take, you know, um, Uh, Osaka, um, you know, right? 

So, it's Osaka, Um, Hi there. 

Even before the world, the world wars, right? 

The idea was that? 

The idea was that Rail development. 

It's great, but It goes back to value capture The investment on the rail would have to be captured Back, right? 

How do you capture that. 

How do you capture that well, and by the way, why is it called captured? 

Sorry. 

As a native speaker, when you say capture or anybody who is confident what the capture really means The word capture, I don't know. 

In French Value capture, there's a word in French. 

But why, why do we call it value capture? 

So, what happens when you build anything in the city? 

The value Cosa, Except sometimes it's polluted, but most infrastructure, Right? 

But who pays for it? 

Who pays for the infrastructure, any type of video of the infrastructure. 

It's the public represented by the government, But who benefits from the the land value increase. 

It's landowner and people around it. 

So, what you see? 

There is The inequality Automatically, right. 

And I'm not talking about just the train. 

And I'm not talking about just the train Parts. 

That is the most from the one of the most fundamental Concepts in Urban Development, especially if you look at it from the point of view of the public. 

Anything that the public invests? 

Anything that the public invests Tends to increase the land value, But the value, But strictly speaking, it's called. 

The increment value Is usually unearned, Meaning the land owners capture it without investing in it. 

You see that the discrepancy right, and this is critical. 

Think of a row. 

There's no road, It's just empty land. 

Somebody say the government build a road Who pays for the road, The government, but its taxpayers money, right? 

So, whoever pays taxes That revenues go to the government. 

The government basically use that money to build the world, But who benefits Who who benefit from the world, The cars, people who drive, And then the lamb honors, right? 

So That there's land value that increases, tends to benefit landowners adjacent or close to the infrastructure. 

If you're interested, Henry George is The Economist who pointed it out Bye a dog. 

Oh, okay, you're you're Georgian, Uh, georges, yes. 

So basically, But it was way before there was, you know, David, Ricardo, and all that, but anyway, the point here, though, is that If we build infrastructure and people who benefit Are the landowners right there, the landowners don't have to do images. 

Honestly, I know so many people who are rich just because they're so lucky To be close to the transit station. 

That includes me, by the way. 

So I was just like, well, I'm sucky. 

I bought this, you know, lamb, Oh my house, not far from the station. 

Over time, the value just increase. 

I didn't have to do anything to my land. 

Because that you have to see the difference between land value increase and the building value that tends to depreciate. 

Because that you have to see the difference between land value increase and the building value that tends to depreciate. 

Plan generally goes up because of. 

Plan generally goes up because of Population growth, economic growth, infrastructure investment, Right? 

So, Land value capture Right. 

When you build anything, the land value, let's take transit stations, and I'm going back to Osaka. 

And, you know, private operators and investors of Japanese rail systems, If there are private, if there are private developers and private rail companies, You build a rail. 

It's so expensive to build a rail, right? 

Look at my hand at the beginning. 

This is. 

Look at my hand at the beginning. 

This is the cost that you need to build Right, and then the marginal cost of the first passenger is so high, Right? 

But over time, the cost will drop King of Manchester. 

You built the BTS. 

There's only one person on it. 

There's no marginal cost, no marginal cost. 

There's no marginal cost, no marginal cost, Because the the the the train has to run By adding one person doesn't add much cost to the system, But the average cost is half now, Right? 

Get it, I mean, this is so important. 

Basic Basics economics microeconomics that that's so important to our class, But you know why that? 

That's important, because Think of rail developers You build the rail, Regardless of how many people on the train You need to run it Right. 

The fixed cost is already super high. 

The marginal cost, the the variable cost is sold at all, like one person on the train. 

Maybe you know? 

It would be a little heavy for the train, but it doesn't matter much, but it reduces the average cost significantly, Right? 

So, it means that you don't want your capacity To be empty. 

You don't want you want to push people into the train as much as possible, right? 

So, what happens when your city is A mono monos monocentric Quick? 

We talked about it. 

Think of like a business person. 

Think of like a business person. 

What's happening to your your investment? 

Now, is that super rich? 

Think of you are? 

You're an, uh, you are PDR BTS. 

You're building BTS 25 years ago. 

Everybody. 

A lot of people live in the suburbs, But jobs are right in Silo or Zion or Siloam. 

Everybody Has to come to the city center. 

What's problematic there for you as a rail operator? 

Not enough, but in what sense, it's correct, not enough customers, not enough passengers. 

The time. 

Yes, explain. 

Dips. 

Yes, in what way Rush hours people come in? 

It dropped right away. 

Rush hours people go back during the day. 

Nobody is praying. 

Nobody rides the train Very little. 

All right, because it's one way, Right? 

It's the same with trucks Right or any Any transportation issues You go one way On the way back. 

Nobody you know is in the train is on the train. 

It's the same logic, and why? 

Is it good? 

Is it good? 

It's just okay, right? 

Yeah, anyway. 

Apparently, on Instagram, it's good, but anyway, it's far. 

Because if the cat dropped you there on the way back, half is empty. 

Because if the cat dropped you there on the way back half is empty, Right? 

You don't want to operate with a, you know, a emptied capacity. 

You don't want to operate with a, you know, a emptied capacity. 

So, all right, what's the solution then? 

But, by the way, it's not just Peak hours. 

It's Saturday Sunday as well, right? 

You are everything. 

You are everything. 

Think of it like a business person. 

Think of like, you know, hunky hunting Tokyo? 

Yeah, it's Tod, but what would you build? 

Yeah, it's Tod, but what would you build What we should build Attraction's good? 

What would you build attractions? 

What kinds of attractions would you build Department stores? 

Department stores tricky, but yes, um, you could have some supermarkets and department stores near the station, right? 

So, that's why you see department store, but usually departments department stores work better with higher density. 

Okay, I'm not getting into theories here, but there's this concept of, um, You know, economics in the city center where, where land is expensive. 

You want activities that have of higher financial value. 

Thanks! 

Commercial activities of certain kinds. 

Department stores tend to be in the city. 

That's why you see, you know, smaller department stores and more, like sub centers. 

And then each station would have a small supermarket. 

Yes, what else? 

What else would you build The and this is exactly your point. 

Now, Evolution. 

Let's look at that. 

It's like evolution of Tod. 

What did they do back then? 

Not this one because you have to go back a little further From your this monitor. 

Um, that's okay, Cuz his is more like city center Get builds. 

Um, Well, Disneyland came much later. 

I'm talking about, like 1900s, early 1900s. 

No Civil market is too small, Um exhibition homes very modern. 

Sorry, Exhibition Hall came much later. 

Um, so basically, you Horse racing? 

Yes, yes. 

House racing tracks Outside the city, so that's one. 

So, people in the weekend would go out, Right? 

So, that's funny. 

But there are other ones as well. 

So there is this really interesting? 

Um, Um, pretty tall. 

It's like a theater group called takaratsuka. 

Takaratsuka is all female theater group in Japan. 

Yes, it's so far, and takaratsuka is actually owned by a rail company. 

I think it's hunky, And they wanted to attract people out Of the city, so they built this fancy theater group. 

And it's by the way. 

If you think that University of Tokyo is the most difficult institution or college or university to get in in Japan, no, that, That the interesting part they built it successfully and people would take the train to all these activities, so they're like, you know, not just this. 

There were also amusement parks small, not Disneyland, but you, you were almost right. 

Amusement parks stuff like that nice, so they built it in such a way that strategically not everything would go to City Center. 

And that's the way strategy would work, Cuz they don't think of. 

Like which plot would benefit me the most, but they think like system y at the system level, How I can organize my portfolio. 

So since back, since that time it was all portfolio based strategy, Right? 

All right, so that's it. 

That's the one now Coming back to that call again. 

Analyze bank calls. 

Government is not strong, so we don't have the plan. 



2:45 PM
We don't have the district level plan. 

And successfully. 

You can blame me as you like, But what else though? 

Why can't the private sector here do that kind of thing? 

Like, what Hunk you in Japanese companies do? 

Oh, they have money. 

Like, you know, when they, they had to import the, um, the the? 

Like, you know when they, they had to import the um, the, the, The the cars, rolling stocks, um, It was heavily subsidized, like, no Customs taxes, Uh, no income taxes. 

For five years, ten years, so it was pretty solid in terms of like what the government helped, but the government did not directly. 

You know, invest much in in the end and in the area around the station. 

As much as what we did by themselves, Why can't we do it? 

Well, you know, you tie people. 

You can help your friend. 

But, well, let's, let's talk about your your city, though. 

Like, why Jakarta was not successful? 

Manila, Boston, maybe a? 

Manila, Boston, maybe a little bit here and there. 

The Boston does have District level plan Dairy around South Station now, which changes significantly Other. 

But I mean like that, there's not so much Transit oriented development there. 

But I mean like that there's not so much Transit oriented development there. 

Yeah, it has like, sprawl. 

So, yeah, it's very strong. 

Is France? 

Paris is quite a bit of different. 

Highly distributed, like they're trying to. 

Highly distributed, like they're trying to. 

Right. 

Thank you for raising that point. 

Um, You know, we talk about Tod quite a lot lately. 

In the field of urban developing and planning this past 15 years. 

But, you know, it's actually an American influence, um, Even though The practice of Transit Rental development was done hundreds of years ago, already right elsewhere, but lately, though lately it came back because they realized that, oh my God, we have to rebuild the transit oriented system. 

That's why we talk people talk more a little more about transgender development and the reason why even the World Bank, um, You know, have the Publications on on the in the folder on the reading list, or they were written by Japanese people, right? 

Japanese, um experts, is because they realized that, Oh wait, the Japanese have been doing this for a long time, Right? 

But in the case of the U.S and maybe Melbourne and other Canadians a little bit as well. 

In the U.S, it's more like Transit or into development of areas of lower density like Portland, Oregon. 

Let's use, um, light rail. 

Like Framingham, for example, like, super sorry, I kind of, know the area, but thing of like, you go to a Suburban. 

Like Framingham, for example. 

Like, super sorry. 

I kind of know the area, but thing of like, you go to a Suburban A station anywhere In the U.S, you, you see, only the station Like, there's no shops. 

Well, okay, framingham's different Ashland. 

It has something to do with the way trains were built. 

It has something to do with the way trains were built, Right? 

Because if they're built in such a way that you will lower the cost of the construction of the rail, That's why it has to be on the flat land, Right? 

And then it would go somewhere. 

It was not built with the city in mind, Right? 

So the difference now, though, right? 

In a higher density, places like Japan, China and East Asia, and in India as well. 

Now, they're building quite a few trains here. 

Is that You can do a lot more around train stations, And then you can do the Urban Development. 

That's why Tod is not limited to the big big. 

You know skyscrapers that we see in the city here, but you can think of suburban locations as well. 

So, think about that. 

And Let's figure out where we can do Transit oriented development in the Bangkok Metro. 

What would you do? 

I'm hiring you as an expert now. 

You what? 

What would you do If you want, if you, if you're so um Into Transit oriented development? 

One of the others actually came to see me, there's a jaika expert, and he said, my passion is Tod. 

I want to do DOD in Bangkok. 

I'm, like, well, you know, kind of, this area is, it's okay, Can't do much. 

Probably, I think there's one. 

Probably, I think there's one thing that I like to point out. 

Could you go to the Shanghai please? 

Um, Look at this Schematic. 

You see, Francis stop, And you see the core commercial area, Right? 

What do you see elsewhere? 

What what you see there that you don't see in Bangkok? 

But office. 

You see though, I see a lot of public space Anywhere in most stations in Japan. 

When you get out of The train, you see what you see a plaza And the plaza would function is both public space and also inter model points, right? 

In my class, you know, in one of my classes, Um? 

That's how station design should be. 

That's how station design should be, But look at any station in Bangkok. 

What do you see when you get out of science where It's no public space, Right? 

There's no public space, so that's the difference, right? 

That we hope that we should get Life and backhoe is not too bad. 

Being an urban planner, you have to think of a long, long term, hopefully in the span of 30 years career. 

You, you see. 

One successful case that you should be happy enough and die. 

There's one interesting case in, well, I'm talking about being an urban planner in Thailand, not the urban planning in Singapore or China, right? 

If you see one successful case here, it's good enough. 

Um, Unfortunately, If you go to Silo, Um, can you actually do you mind? 

Um, Because I'm not connected. 

Um, Type in Park. 

Siloam, Can you pull out part Siloam? 

And I have to give this credit to my colleagues here. 

I Japanese and his team was done. 

You know, a lot of work negotiating with landowners and developers and some graduates from this program To work now. 

Um, you know, in this field, And thank you so much Park, Simon. 

So, For those of you who had, um, A, p, r, i, q, sorry? 

It's, um, And then you can click on to, or maybe, do you mind doing it an image instead instead of maps? 

Yeah, Sorry, that we use your Personal computer. 

All right, any station in Bangkok. 

What do you see Before he moves? 

Okay, nothing. 

Yeah, and then, and when you're down, you're down to straight to the sidewalk. 

Yeah, right, straight to the sidewalk, so you don't have any plaza any open speeds, right? 

Yes, so The reason is because it goes back to Yeah, parcel. 

Yep, you can do the the actual picture. 

Is there any picture of the current the mountain? 

Is there any picture of the current, the mountain, The one below, maybe further down? 

Ah, it's not. 

Well, the left one. 

So, think of any station, even Siam Square station. 

So, think of any station, even Siam Square station You, you, you, you come down the stairs. 

And it goes back to the fact that the government did not want to take any land from landowners. 

And it goes back to the fact that the government did not want to take any land from landowners. 

This strategy was, you can call it the path of least resistance. 

This strategy was, you can call it the path of least resistance, Right? 

The path of the least resistance. 

Any place that you get the least resistance You use it, you take it. 

So That's why you see the, you know, the stat case? 

So, That's why you see the, you know, the staircases. 

You see the elevator shaft on the sidewalk, Because Going back to walkability, We didn't care about the pedestrians. 

We didn't care about pedestrians because we wanted to train, Right, it's sacrifice. 

It's okay, nobody walks anyway Back then. 

That's how we thought nobody walked anyway. 

Just use the sidewall. 

That's why the BTS was interesting Because it did not have to take any lamb Most very little land from private owners almost nonmetic. 

Yeah, which is which made it fast relatively fast to build. 

That's also public. 

That's also public, Yes, right, and the sidewalk. 

Yeah, that's also public. 

Just build the, uh, the the staircases there, Fine, right? 

So that's why you don't see the type of open space in front of the stations. 

You don't see the in, Uh, intermodal areas where you can get on and off of the, you know, caps? 

Um, you know, uh, buses and other ones there, right? 

There's no intermodal station design. 

This is the first place In front of the building. 

This is privately owned. 

The concept was actually popularized in New York. 

The concept was actually popularized in New York, New York City, The city of New York, realized that it was too difficult to acquire new land for public purposes to build parks to be built Plaza, So it negotiated With the private developer So that the private developers will open The the front Of the building for public use, Right? 

If you, if you look at some all, um, you know, play like buildings in Bangkok, Even some major ones, um, like the two one princess or even that's relatively new. 

But you can still see Architect sorry. 

Had to do what the landowners wanted. 

If you look at the old Office Buildings in Bangkok in front of the buildings tend to have a wall, It's a wall. 

It's clear separation between the ugly public sidewalk and the beautifully maintained Shrine and The space, right? 

It's not public. 

You go to, like, Bangkok Bank, you know, any buildings in Selon Road, the old ones would have that kind of, you know, separation between public and private, and the more recent one you see open space that's open to the public, right? 

Like, for example, um, is one, you know, all these new ones, right? 

But this one is unique, Is unique in that The front the front Is open open to the public. 

It went through some serious negotiation between the city and with my colleague here, and his, my former students and all that they were able to convince the landowner to open this to the public. 

It went through some serious negotiation between the city and with my colleague here, and his, my former students and all that they were able to convince the landowner to open this to the public, But it's win-win. 



3:01 PM
It's win-win. 

Because If you want to pay, this is a very expensive restaurant, Italian restaurant, Right, and a screen space. 

They are able to attract more footprint into the building now, Right? 

You know these private owners, I mean, I'm not saying that they're bad people, but it's not like, oh, because I'm such a good person, I'm giving this to the public. 

No, it's win-win, Right? 

It's win-win solution. 

They get more food traffic, The cat space for different activities, and at the same time the public gets it as well. 

What is also unique, is this one Anybody's been there? 

You know what the difference is? 

Yes, it's connected directly. 

Yes, it's connected directly. 

But before this, the actual? 

But before this, the actual Stairs is right. 

The, uh, the the sidewalk, Right? 

So we, they got rid of the sidewalk, Draw it into the the building, and make an elevator escalator down, Right? 

So, it's not exactly Transit or into development per se, Right? 

Because the building is building there, but you see a little bit of different there. 

Different, different mentality, like, oh, we could integrate everything. 

The Skywalks is one unique feature of Transit oriented Development. 

I can tell you. 

I can tell you The benefit of being old In in the 80s and 90s. 

Exit entrance Highway was the. 

Exit entrance Highway was the key, Right? 

And if you go to, I don't know. 

In other countries, it's probably the same, you know, like, quick access to the highways was the key word, but now it's different. 

The new condos are popping up. 

The new condos are popping up, So we do have Transit renter development here in Bangkok. 

I would argue, But it's private, but it's not comprehensive. 

Comprehensive as an integrator is not integrated. 

We don't have the sidewalk. 

Um, we don't have the multi-modal Integration system, yet they tried, but not so much, right? 

So, it's still a long way. 

Answer your question, why not? 

It's because the government is not strong enough Or doesn't want to be that strong enough to appropriate land from land owners. 

The question would be, why can't you have a stronger government? 

Well, that's a different story in itself, right? 

Because I mean, it's the culture. 

It's whatever, right? 

So that goes beyond this class. 

Sorry, thank you for this now, all right. 

I really like That. 

I really like That, uh, let's go to the the last. 

Gentrifications, Um, how would you? 

Gentrifications, Um, how would you, um, you know? 

We know that gentrification happens, so we don't need to debate it, it happens. 

Obviously, Siam Square is obvious because, you know, gentrification. 

People who used to be able to sell. 

People who used to be able to sell Whatever little things at Sam's Square They cannot. 

Now, I know so many tailors, you know, like local tailors they used to do, like us, and seem stress. 

Steam seam stress Seems same stress, right? 

Um, you know, Local aunties. 

No, it's so expensive. 

Now, Gentrification. 

So gentrification is not just about residential gentrification. 

There's also people who used to be able to have the livelihoods there, but no longer Able to do it, So that's not debatable. 

I think it's pretty settled up, it happens. 

But, what can you do about it? 

What? 

What kinds of strategies you know? 

Could you Due to at least, Um, alleviate The effects, the negative effects of gentrification On it? 

I'm gonna try. 

It's a big issue in itself, and I'm not going to cover it in this class because I assume other classes should cover that. 

It's a big issue in itself, and I'm not going to cover it in this class because I assume other classes should cover that. 

But in any, um, Transit oriented development. 

And I guess it goes back to the basic question about the land market. 

Um, If you let the market dictate, you know, the transactions. 

You will definitely have gentrification for sure, Because certain plots certain certain stations are more attractive, Right, that Other stations for investment purposes, And it's. 

It's impossible, I mean, I'm not saying Square, but you know, the stretch of sine Square to central world? 

It's impossible. 

I mean, I'm not saying Square, but you know, the stretch of sine Square to central world? 

Nowhere nowhere in Thailand would compete would be able to compete. 

It's just simple, you know? 

Path dependency agglomeration is already here. 

It's going to be very difficult, But you can naturally compete, You know, differently. 

You're not going to build a big mall thinking that it could compete with. 

You know Sam Paragon in the central world By offering the same thing, right? 

So when it comes to Urban? 

And differentiation doesn't mean that it's all about business. 

And differentiation doesn't mean that it's all about business, Right, Maybe, and, and this is the big debate We, we may not need, You know, a housing for the poorest of the poor in Times Square? 

I don't know what would you think if we built, like, you know, Um, some huge complex for Some really poor people? 

Let's go to the extreme Build, a homeless shelter at Sam's Square. 

I Spend money to Lobby the government not to do not to. 

Why not, I mean, I mean, we have homeless problems here. 

Why don't we want to support the homeless people right here? 

It cost, uh, like, like, for people will lower the property back? 

Yeah, capitalist, oh my God. 

Yeah. 

Sometimes I. 

I'm talking about, like, proper. 

I'm talking about, like, proper Accommodation for them, not just allow. 

Allow is, like, okay, we're not gonna. 

Yeah, it's more than affordable housing, right? 

It's, it's. 

This is like, you know, housing for the homeless Or okay, homeless extreme, like, really poor people, Street vendors, Motorcycle taxi drivers. 

Why don't we build affordable housing for them right here? 

Transit oriental development. 

Livelihoods is beyond. 

Livelihoods is beyond It's modern housing, so even though they could potentially live here, They're not going to be able to afford. 

You know $300 Ramen everyday, Even though that's even expensive for me. 

But yeah, right. 

So, okay, that's one legitimate, You know, um, argument, valid, too. 

But what else, though? 

I mean going back to our friend, capitalist look at him. 

This looks like capitalists. 

Because if you have a lot of poor people there? 

Because if you have a lot of poor people there, The value of the property will go down And you're building the subway and you're building the train station there Value capture. 

How would you deal with that As a strategist? 

By the way, strategy is all about trade-offs, right. 

Like, Ah, okay, I have to get rid of something so that I can focus on certain things Comprehensive is when you do everything, Right, but if you are a super focused strategist, you're like this is a goal. 

I'm just gonna get there. 

I, I'm gonna ignore a few things along the way. 

Like the poor, the homeless. 

So, if your strategy is transit or into development, And you're like Depoe are going to lower the value, I'll just get rid of them All, right? 

I mean, that's Imp. 

But what can we do if we think gentrification is a problem? 

But what can we do if we think gentrification is a problem If you don't think identification is? 

The problem is fine. 

That's not even a problem, But if you indeed, thinking, Yeah, so Implement, so it comes back to the point of differentiation strategy, Right? 

All right, we cannot build any affordable housing in Sam's Square, But on node is less expensive. 

It's less expensive. 

It's only 15 minutes away. 

It's only 15 minutes away, And your room would be bigger there. 

So, let's build affordable housing, not in Zion Square, but It are not instead Superior High. 

Okay, maybe another is a little far. 

How about prompong? 

Instead, the problem is still expensive, right? 

So anyway, negotiation. 

This is about negotiation, Right. 

Differentiation will come When you have the coordination and Negotiation mechanisms. 

That's why I said in Japan, even though we use the word coordination. 

I mean, coordination is such a sort of, you know, beautiful word. 

Oh, that's coordinate. 

I love you. 

Let's do it together. 

But in reality, people come with. 

You want that. 

Let's. 

You want that? 

We can have some less gentrified neighborhoods. 

How would you do that? 

How would you do that? 

Differentiation. 

Again, let's go back to differentiation. 

Let's do system level system level Differentiation. 

Think of think bigger when you do Transit Oriental development. 

Don't just think of one station. 

We are talking about Urban strategies here. 

You are not Urban designers, even though you may be an urban designer, but we are thinking about Urban level strategy here. 

How would you create City based on transit systems That would have differentiated products? 

Don't build the transit as a coin, a corridor, all right, so that so that one strategy is to a corridor strategy. 

So, let's let, can you explain what what? 

It's like a corridor level strategy. 

All right. 

So along the train, and how would you do it? 

How? 

What kind of products would you have, say? 

What kind of products would you have, say, Um, where do you live okay, too close? 

Okay, Bingo thing of, like the BTS, going to unknot. 

Yeah, we have a party in my house, you know. 

Two, two months later, think of like, you know from from science where to, I'm not and Beyond to who got? 

That's a long line of 25 stations. 

Maybe, how would you do this strategy at the corridor level. 

Where do I put poor people? 

Where do I put poor people Where they put rich people, Right? 

But your strategy is, is more focused. 

Your strategy is more Corridor strategy, which means this Corridor, This kind of sense that Corridor. 

Another sense that Corridor and stuffer, so you think of different Corridor The the, uh, the BTS light green Corridor to what's you have one Vision, Which means if you have one vision for that, the North and Corridor could be different. 

The West Corridor could be different as well, right? 



3:18 PM
So, at the city level, you have that sense of light. 

So assuming You? 

So, assuming You know, at the city of law, next is the corridor level. 

That Corridor, Where? 

That Corridor. 

Where do you put things offices residential commercial? 

Um, um, you know, some fun. 

Some parks, Different nodes. 

Yeah, so In European cities and all these cities that you see, You see, In China and Japan as well as well, The notes are important. 

It's not just clusters of equal sizes. 

It's not just clusters of equalizes. 

There are notes Medium, medium, medium, Big, medium, medium, medium, or smaller, medium, small, small, small, small, small, That's kind of density. 

It's critical, not just for. 

It's critical, not just for Mobility management. 

You know, like how many people would get in and out, But there's other? 

There's other reasons. 

Well, can you guess Why? 

It's important for Fleet Management. 

It's important for Fleet Management. 

Think of like, you need to operate the trains Optimization. 

How would it work Rather than leads Southwest City Symphony? 

I would make like an Express line exactly. 

I would make like an Express line, exactly. 

That's why, in Japan, they have super super Express, Express, medium Express, and local train. 

That's the reason, It's. 

It changes the way you think about space. 

Strategy can ban space and time, Right? 

And that changes the way you think about land markets as well, because if you think of the city as one big plane. 

And that changes the way you think about land markets as well. 

Because if you think of the city as one big plane, City Center is the most expensive, and it goes down, down, down, down, down, right? 

It's the most wonderful anyway. 

It's the most wonderful. 

Anyway, You've been in space and time. 

You no longer have to be close to Chula Right to come to Trulia quickly because you're not walking. 

You can. 

You could take an Express train from on nut Bright to Zion. 

That means that you can actually create that sense of cluster without having to be close to the city, So that's sort of Vancouver a little bit. 

Vancouver was like, you know, you have the city of Vancouver in the middle. 

Vancouver was like, you know, you have the city of Vancouver in the middle And then flat, flat, flat, And then Regional Center. 

Go Like that, But you could go into the city pretty quickly, So that's the whole reason why You need planning. 

You need strategy there, cuz you need to be able to identify. 

Where am I going to put the express trains because that's where the big big department stores is going to be Right? 

Because if you know that, I mean, take the train. 

You, you know, you go to between, um, And you know, from Science Square, you go Siam and chitlong Clinton that have small, small, small Smalls, and then you don't have any Mars in prakenal. 

It come by a little bit now and then they jump to unknote. 

I'm, like, oh, so happy. 

I'm, like, oh, so happy. 

Um, but that's exactly strategy. 

Its density allocation strategy. 

So, Maya, you're right, and Captain, you're right, you as well. 

It's the it's that it's not just land use it's density management allocation, because that will reflect where you want to put the trains as well, right? 

But the BTS. 

By the way, there are trains coming from cool code all the way in the middle of nowhere. 

By the way, there are trains coming from cool code all the way in the middle of nowhere. 

And then there are trains in the morning that start from unknote as well, but it's not expressed, right? 

So, that's important for Transit oriented development strategy. 

So, when you think of Tod and I, You know, I say this all the time. 

So, I stopped talking this even in the Thai public because I'm sorry, but It's beyond me. 

At this point, People think of Tod just stationed oriented development. 

People think of DOD as station design. 

People think of Tod as areas around the train. 

No, You have to think bigger than that. 

You need to think at the city level and Corridor level where you want to put things All right. 

So, other than other than allocation of density along aquarium, how else would you want to allocate? 

Where do you want to put things? 

Because why, because you look at in the morning? 

Because, why? 

Because you look at in the morning, One way is so crowded. 

The other way is so empty and you see people. 

I don't do it, but you see people who will take like a few. 

In China, I'm sure in Japan as well, they would go away from the city so that they. 

In Japan as well, they would go away from the city so that they Get. 

In Japan as well. 

They would go away from the city so that they Get onto the train because as you move, it's closer to the city. 

The train is too crowded. 

They cannot get on to the train. 

This companies to the service. 

That's an interesting strategy, And it could work. 

It could work, But what could be the problem there? 

What could be the challenge now? 

Not a problem. 

It's a good strategy, and some people have done it. 

Some cities have done it. 

What's the difficulty there? 

When you say move, who move Well, the company wouldn't want to know, right? 

I mean, like, I'm gonna tell the president of Chula move Chula outside, so it's not contested here. 

I can't, who ordered the companies to move? 

Okay, so that's one strategy, right? 

So you have to. 

Yes, exactly. 

So, when you say move, I'm I'm just being, uh, slightly cynical there. 

When you say move, it's not actually moving, right? 

It's more like building something so that they would move It's different from moving factories out of the city, Right. 

Positive instruments Point Are prim. 

Positive instruments Point Are primarily Incentives or measures that incentivize people to change behaviors, Right? 

So, it's it's incentive structures that you need to build, But you also have negative measure, which is basically forcing people to do it. 

Factories, you need to move, Right? 

That's negative, measure you. 

You tell them to move because they're polluted. 

They're bad. 

You need to get out, But? 



3:52 PM
Yeah. 

Did you go back to? 

Did you go back to The the map meeting up there? 

11 Oh, sorry. 

You see, this went through Library adjustment. 

You see? 

This went through Library adjustment, Right? 

I mean, there's nothing normal about square, right? 

So um, but well, this is all language Justin. 

Justin, And so. 

Justin And um, but think of like thoughts, random plots, But you want to make it like that. 

How do you do it? 

Well, you'll either bomb the whole city and then redo it, which happened there, or you talk to the landowners. 

You define the area You have, you know, maybe 100 square meters? 

So, you basically said, look, give me your land first. 

So, you basically said, look, give me your land first, And then I will do the blocks for you. 

And then, after the block is made. 

You get your own plots back. 

It may not be it on the same location. 

It may be smaller, but your land value will increase, because after The land Readjustment, The price will go up. 

You have better access Better infrastructure, Perhaps some green space, right? 

So usually. 

Usually, that's the ideal. 

It obviously goes through some, you know, negotiations taking forever. 

Because, like, who would want to give the land away? 

What do I do during that time, right? 

So, you need to convince the landowners that Pre and post land values would be really different. 

Usually, it's like, you know, 1.6 time. 

It depends on the place. 

Usually, that's how it was called. 

You need the law To. 

So, what happens is that in case of Japan? 

So, what happens is that in case of Japan, Korea, Taiwan, and other places, Um, it's two-thirds of the residents of the not presence land owners Will have to agree, interestingly. 

In Japan, they include people who rent as well. 

So, that's a different story. 

Like, if you have yeah 50, 50, plus percent of the residents say yes. 

Like, if you have yeah. 

50, 50, plus percent of the residents say, yes, The project would go ahead. 

So, the rest will say sorry. 

You have to move about, so it's not all voluntarily, right? 

It's, it's pretty harsh. 

They will expand the school so that you will find people who would agree and make it 50. 

Very tricky, right, governments, but that's how it was done. 

It's been around for so long. 

A successful in the case in this in the sense that you see the plots like that. 

A successful in the case in this, in the sense that you see the plots like that, It's not. 

It's not a financing mechanism. 

So, Library adjustment requires that sort of really nice, and I call it narrow Corridor. 

So, Library adjustment requires that sort of really nice. 

And I call it narrow Corridor. 

If doing land reinjustment in the middle of nowhere? 

If doing land reinjustment in the middle of nowhere, Because it loud battle would not go up, you just dumped your money to beautify the plots, and that's it, right? 

But at the same time the landlord cannot need to, um, to esteem And too expensive because nobody would want to sell. 

So it's a it's a tricky method, tricky method we try, but it's not easy. 

And by the way, it's not just Landry adjustment. 

There's other things as well that one could do in the city. 

Use a Landry adjustment primarily is for Suburban area changing from empty green fields to residential and low density for for Transit or interdevelopment, you kind of have to. 

Do you need other mechanisms as well. 

Yeah, it's it's, it's, it's, it's, it's. 

It's, it's not a straightforward Solution. 

Maya, I thought you had something. 

And if the private attraction is still more interesting or obesity, how? 

So, in case of Park Ceylon. 

So, in case of Park Ceylon, The public, the clear public benefit is that the plaza, the part the little part like the open space. 

That's one, but it doesn't negate the negative effects of gentrification because of the Tod. 

All right, so that's the issue of governance error. 

You can incentivize them to provide something for the public, but it doesn't mean that that provision will would, um, right, Right? 

So governance wise, though I forgot to tell you one key important, Uh, when she message one key element in Bangkok, which has been underutilized, which is state lab. 

There's quite a lot. 

There's quite a lot of public land plots around and near transit stations in Bangkok District office. 

Take perkong District office. 

We could actually go back to the point of why can't we use them for affordable housing? 

We could actually go back to the point of why can't we use them for affordable housing? 

Why can't we use them for, you know, like, let private developers to build on it, but make money of it and then build other things with that money. 

So it's. 

It goes back to that sense of mentality, a little bit like we have to be a little bit more creative that way. 

One comment that I get back when I propose that kind of concept is that, oh, we're so afraid Because I mean that that's sort of the Thai mentality. 

The government's mentality as well. 

The moment you do something with public land and have a private developer doing it. 

People say, oh, you must be corrupt, which could, yeah, because it's such a corrupt Society, right? 

It's, it's so prevalent that, you know, corruption is so prevalent that every that good government officers are afraid of doing anything Right. 

So that goes back to the basic planning theories. 

Do you want the government to have? 

I mean, I guess, my class last term. 

I don't remember which class I taught Between being statutory oriented, meaning everything. 

Every single thing has to be stated in the law, Anything beyond the law. 

I'm not going to do it Because if you do anything beyond the law, you'll be considered corrupt, or you'll be considered, you know, violating that principles or laws Versus The British case is more like, Um, what do you call, um, Uh, discretionary? 

A lot of government officers don't want to do anything beyond the law. 

A lot of government officers don't want to do anything beyond the law, Right? 

Because the moment you start negotiating with the private developers, you could be considered, You know, corrupt, All right. 

So, it, it goes to the level of governance, but the, you know, the, the cognitive level of governance, what kind of government you want? 

That's it, And that will dictate the types of designs the types of, um, you know. 

The types of regulations we could have. 

Okay, all right, we can take talk more. 

I'm already three minutes late. 

There you go, You should answer. 

There you go. 

You should answer her a question Tod and walkability, dear friends. 

Or you can discuss all right, looking forward to your presentations next week, your friends. 

So far, you know, like, um? 

