

So, in the interest of time, Uh, let's move to our next presentation, So I will request the thread to start presentation that you have a 20 minutes to present, And then we have a five minutes for 2 + 2 and 5 minutes. 

For questions and answers for the presentation. 

Is this light on now? 

Yes, you can see this. 

Okay, so my resource is about the narrative of walkability. 

It's how Urban problems are framed and to design and materialize. 

Okay, so it's about like, how, what university is Okay? 

First, I want everyone to see the background first. 

This one is, like, they try to put something that can be measured, like. 

This one is like, they try to put something that can be measured, like Density, Population density, and maybe the size and Everything into the, Uh, vulnerable. 

To make. 

It can be measured In the past. 

The writer named Jeff speak talking about the city is vulnerable, not simply because working impossible, but it makes sense to work. 

The writer named Jeff speak talking about the city is vulnerable, not simply because working impossible, but it makes sense to work, And Von University has evolved through the policy question connect, working to broader Global concept like health, climate change, digital relaxation, and digital dependency and everything else. 

Please expand the meaning in the literature. 

This vulnerability is still frequently used in quality debates to save up and technical design standard. 

So, this research Is looking further into how Have hidden not just only like the design. 

So, the problem is the misunderstanding about, like, vulnerable City, so vulnerable cities often videos into sidewalk. 

Like I said, and this extend that and many, many cities like Chiang Mai build cyborg, but people still would not walking, and also the problem is not just only infrastructed alone. 

But how working is? 

So to call Aquaman is what university is, not just the same vocabulous. 

The study accurate that there will be function as a conservative through which city defy urban problems and legitimate experience. 

And imagine that disciples future. 

So, going to into my research question. 

The main question is, how are what we derivatives construct and share Google Megatron And two subscription is? 

I'll add the Google Pages selective. 

Reframe. 

This one is like, Adopted from, And how to narrative translate into everyday walking. 

So I use the narrative elements Elements like the setting. 

So, what I found is the city must explain why walking matters, for whom? 

The combo maker settings, for example, it's like teaching Society, climate change, Public Health, and the national competitiveness. 

The combo maker settings. 

For example, it's like teaching Society, climate change, Public Health, and the national competitiveness, But they create the pressure that City must be interpreted. 

So, from this, The mechanism is like the from the macro level from problem maker. 

And then the city selected narrative absorption to see original benefit and detectimized. 

And then the city selected narrative absorption to see original benefit and detectimized. 

So, diversity from system efficiency Berlin is like an equality. 

Berlin is like an equality Portland. 

Berlin is like an equality. 

Portland is lifestyle and choice, and Singapore is smart efficiency. 

So this one I found on the literature is The volleyball city. 

Is He must in different timeline? 

It depends on what the global Mega train Can translate into the city policy. 

So this one linked about the level narrative framework from the macro government Everyday walk. 

And From here, this is the process of the selective energy absorption from interpretation and translation determination. 

So, this one? 

So this one After we got the data. 

I will do the comparative logic about, like, Uh, by compare the city together Because the city has similar coverage and blood pressure Into City, City, and And Is test. 

So, I use the velocity cases From Tokyo, Portland, Berlin, and Singapore. 

This is the big city. 

We have the data to buy out. 

So, this one is from my previous assignment. 

So, This is the purpose analytical mechanism. 

We see the city. 

Yeah, and the dominant Gravities You said the yes, like no Woodland and Monroe. 

So, for example, Singapore has the techno cap as 0 million is toughly congestion. 

So, Remolo is technology and planning opt in my life. 

Tokyo is more like social harmony, And I'll show them a lot is order into our livable communities In Berlin. 

There has one of the box citizen empowerment, Eloy Civic groups Milanese, And another is people shape the city, and Portland is Mobility tested below its community, and within this inequality, exclusion and develop is still belong to everyone. 

There is qualitative documentary analysis by doing, looking into the publicity and space and media text. 

There is qualitative documentary analysis by doing, looking into the publicity and space, and media text And native coating focus on emergency. 

This is what I studied. 

That's not to, like, measure probability level and ranking the city And test casual effect. 

So, um, this is the data collection Trying to the primary data or for material. 

So, we look into City level policy document, like a web development plans, transport and Mobility strategy, Probability, and disability policy. 

Secondly, apart from the official policy Court. 

Secondly, apart from the official policy Court And mediateks and using the maximum DNA to coding Exporting to see what is setting correct airport tomorrow. 

Contextual coding maker to an asset thing. 

Analysis will be analysis Rarity of dominance negative And this study. 

We will explain how compound magazine are selecting the absorb to policy narrative. 

They think there were generally able to see and practice the constancy. 

I want to explain why I decided solution often failed when I will never keep a line. 

I want to explain why I decided solution often failed when I will never keep a line. 

That's Thank you. 

That's Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you! 

Really interesting! 

Presentation was really compelling in dynamic, And it was really wonderful to hear your perspective on What people, what capabilities today. 

Therefore, we will be expanding the question and answers selection to 10 minutes to allow more direct interaction okay. 

Therefore, we will be expanding the question and answers selection to 10 minutes to allow more direct interaction. 

Okay, So any question? 

Okay, Moe has a question. 

Oh, please call And also thank you that For your informative presentation, uh, regarding your your city research project, uh, you just show, you know, uh, like a comparative analysis or the dominant narrative across four countries. 

So, in this case, you know, uh, Do you have any idea or knowledge about, you know Why, uh, they use that kind of dominant and narrated, for example, uh, in some, like, in the case of balance, uh, they mainly focus on the tested, you know. 

Thank you very much. 

Thank you very much. 

Okay, so, um, Let me My opinion. 

And the idea that I have read from the literature. 

There is some kind of like that, I said about the macro. 

There is some Going like, Like, uh, in 2000, maybe it's held. 

It's developed into, like Cobalt, warming the green, the sustainable Something like this going on. 

And, Uh, that's when the power 10 is captured by the. 

Okay, so? 

Okay, so? 

Okay, so, Uh, in one city, there is not They. 

They can absorb more than one More than one another team. 

Sometimes you just combine together like, you know, and digitalization to make the. 

Sometimes, you just combine together like, you know, and digitalization to make the More like small City or sustainable City. 

But um, From what I have to find, I must first looking into, like A city policy. 

First, it smells available, and they have to see what method. 

Let me tell us about the main the macro things that they adopted by looking into their policy, and what legitimize. 

So, that's how I justify the dominance gravity. 

Thank you. 

Well, for your question, thank you so much. 

Third for your answer and response. 

Any other question Angela? 

Okay, so Let me ask a question on this. 

So you, you argue that vulgability is a policy narrative. 

Okay, rather than simply a design article that is a great contribution of your research. 

I would say So. 

What? 

What does this shift change And how we understand Urban governance? 

Uh, okay, So maybe maybe here is my suggestion? 

Maybe, maybe you should explain that governance is not only about material Intervention, But also about meaning, right? 

Yes, yes. 

So, so narrative defined problems, legitimize priorities, and ship whose knowledge count, right. 

So, our capability becomes a political interpretation, not a technical condition. 

Something like that, right, yes. 

And, and my other question, how does your concept of selective narrative absorption, right? 



2:31 PM
And my other question, how does your concept of selective narrative absorption, right? 



2:31 PM
The Narrative policy framework. 

I try to link that. 

I try to link that How the city, Um, I mean to extend the native. 

You can see, I want to to combine like three levels of Michael. 

So Michael together to link. 

How It's? 

It's not like, uh, diffusion. 

But how the originality legitimize some direction of the policy in small City? 

Yeah, something like that. 

So, so, so maybe, uh, you should clearly specify that process mechanism, right, that how macro pressures are interpreted, translated, and legitimized in the city level. 

And then, about the mega friend you mentioned are these Mega Trends independent variables in your studies? 

And then about the mega friend you mentioned. 

Are these Mega Trends independent variables in your studies? 

So, yes, Um, my girlfriend is more like the lens that I look through. 

It's like, detima is to do. 

It's like detima is to do So. 

Maybe maybe they are not causal determinants, but they are contextual narrative settings. 

Maybe, right? 

They create pressures that require interpretation, right? 

And You, you talked about diffusion now, right? 

Talk about diffusion. 

So, so that that's the question that what distinguish your work from policy transfer or diffusion studies? 

Okay, so, um, I'm not looking into How is diffused into, Um, the design, or the, Uh, I, I look forward more into, like The legitimized things. 

Okay, that's that's good. 

Okay, so? 

How can I explain? 

How can I explain? 

It's, like, Okay, sorry, um, it's like, Uh, uh, let me give you some example. 

I, I don't know if this was okay, like in Thailand, based on something That government decides to make the Plan into, like. 

I into the mega train, right? 

And, and then, Uh, the local government Have to interpret into Interpret that what is? 

What is soup or the cities and make it make it their policy? 

Um, it's related into everyday life of people in the city. 

Yeah, that's how it's transferred to each level. 

Like the sudra did, Yeah? 

Like the sudra. 

Did I have to do it because, um, it will be what related to myself? 

What is defining about Okay? 

And another question. 

How does narrative Absorption Differs from narrative adoption in your study? 

Um Is. 

Um, The analogy absorption is more like when the city have I, I don't want to say the city capacity, but the city context is Match for that moment of the gravity, so they select it and then put it into the electricity definition. 

So, so what would be an example of narrative misalignment? 

So, so what would be an example of narrative misalignment Across that macro messo in micro levels Misalignment so? 

Maybe maybe Global Health framing macro right and City adopts efficiency narrative? 

That could be the meso and working frame rate optimization, not lifestyle. 

Micro experiences like field instrument like meaningful something like that, And why compare cities instead of countries? 

So themsel To compare about ECT because I want to see And absolutely The different varieties of From the macro. 

And It's elusive. 

I mean, This type of girl it is. 

That's how it's different to each other. 

Yeah, so maybe maybe you should include that narrative constructions occur at the level where policies are interpreted and implemented, Like cities like, yeah? 

Cities are the sides of translation, not just a national policy like this. 

I want to try something like His friendly tend to see it, though I chose like the Singapore and. 

I want to try something like His friendly tend to see it, though I chose like the Singapore and And Portland in US and also Germany. 

And I want to see the different context, and Actually, it's different. 

Like, Why do you think that document analysis is sufficient for studying the narrative, Uh, because it's empirical and it's already happened in the past so that that's how it works so? 

And, do you think there will be challenges associated with application of documented analysis in your study? 

Yeah, I think, um, Maybe when I'm coding, maybe it's over narrative, maybe it's? 

Too many noise. 

In the The document, you have to see that this one is the Yeah. 

So, so you will have to, Yeah, okay. 

And, and you also mentioned in your slide that your study does not test causal effects, right? 

Then, what is your explanatory claim? 

That's how the vulnerability works if you realize. 

That's how the vulnerability works. 

If you realize Life and habits, Okay. 

I've again asked this question because I asked from the multiple, what is the main limitation of your approach? 

I've again asked this question because I asked from the multiple. 

What is the main limitation of your approach The main limitation? 

Current limitation is is not defined This city, and this city is actually about diversity or not. 

It is just how it legitimate to be policy. 

Okay, let's press. 

Thank you. 

Thank you. 

Thank you And any other questions. 

Okay, so Since we do not have any questions, So let's, let's like, wind up this seminar. 

So I would say that this research holds immense potential to bridge existing policy gaps, A frame. 

So, I would say that this research holds immense potential to bridge existing policy gaps, A framework that is not only robust, Uh, and actionable, but internationally relevant. 

So it provides a clear pathway to address current policy challenges through practical and well structured bank. 

I would say that. 

Your contributions have truly sparked excellent dialogue today, But I. 

Your contributions have truly sparked excellent dialogue today, But I also like to thank our audience or your active participation And thoughtful questions, which added so much depth to the seminar. 

See you in the next seminar. 

See you in the next seminar! 

Thank you, thank you very much. 

Thank you. 

Oh. 

