1:37 PM
That when you decide on the project, right? 

And you, do you have to look? 

You have to calculate the cost and benefit, right? 

The cost is primarily you know how much money you're putting in the opportunity cost of the money, um, You know, and some other hidden costs, maybe environmental costs, But the benefits usually are, you know, economic or Financial benefits, right? 

When you calculate if you if you count, if you really compare walking with other modes of transportation, Just use private car. 

How would I'm I'm turning you now? 

How would you argue that cars are more valuable Then walking? 

Sorry, It brings benefit. 

In what way? 

Okay, yeah, How about other? 

Yes, Patty. 

Right, it's it actually. 

So, one thing that, um, we need to go back to This concept of cost-benefit analysis in transportation planning and using Transportation planning. 

Mobility planning Is speed. 

It's speak, right? 

Speed is, is, you know, faster, is considered more productive. 

I mean in our lives, Usually when, when we compare to people, right, if if you can write a paper in three hours versus somebody who can write a paper in one hour. 

If you compare it that way in terms of exactly the same output, Then faster is considered better, right, Right? 

But we'll come back to the critique of this way of thinking about efficiency because cars are supposed to be more efficient in terms of economic production, Then walking. 

Let's pretend that we favor cars again. 

What else could be the argument for, You know, uh, building the roads for the cars versus Blocking? 

We have productivity. 

We have efficiency. 

We have the um, you know, political economy argument there. 

I mean, it's so related, a little bit, because, um, you know, the political economy and the productivity part, right, How do you relate them. 

How do you relate his argument that the government favors the rich and the middle class who drive versus people who walk? 

Right, rich people. 

Richer people pay more taxes, which is kind of interesting, because if you're really rich, you're not paying taxes. 

But you know, you sort of, you're sort of people who are there, right? 

I mean, I, I know, you, I, I assume, you know, that argument, right, that if you're really rich, you're not really paying a lot of taxes, Uh, because you find ways to, you know, avoid paying taxes, right? 

So anyway, but generally, you're right, right? 

The rich, not only paying more taxes, but they are also supposedly contribute. 

Contribute more for the economy. 

I think of like, you know, a CEO I'm not driving, but maybe sitting in a car private car, right versus a street vendor walls, right? 

If you think of economic production only, then you could assume that the CEO, Right. 

What are, is, Is the co is contributing more to the economy, right? 

So, we need to let him move faster. 

Because here's one minute Is more Right, economically Productive than somebody else is walking for one minute. 

Okay, that's, that's the argument. 

Wait, don't, don't hate me yet. 

Let's, let's stick to the core argument of why we have favored cars anything else. 

Why have we favorite cars? 

Why? 

Why, in China, wonderful? 

You know, urban planning as it is, but you, you have a lot of requirements now. 

Well, stimulation of the car industry right and, and we, you know, we call the optimization a few weeks ago as well, that one reason why Thailand has put so much effort, And you know, the road infrastructure is because you want to boost the domestic demand for cars All right. 

What else Safety, right? 

It is interesting why, why? 

That's an interesting document. 

Well, safety safe for the driver, right? 

They might not be safe for other people, but at least it's safer. 

Okay For the one who drives And walking doesn't feel like it's safe. 

Okay, What else? 

Uh, Well, um. 

So, to paraphrase your argument a little bit, um, Cars can help expand the city further away, Cuz if you're limited to walking, Right? 

You can't go far Right, so cars can accommodate more people in a way. 

I mean, you know, in a way, because assuming that if you can expand As much as you can, But but Why, why do we like cars other than you? 

It's too hard to walk, So why do we like cars? 

And why don't we like, what, okay? 

You're you're, you're like You alone time in your car. 

No, it's it makes sense. 

It makes sense expensive. 

It makes sense, right? 

I mean, you feel like, It's, it's private time, and it's if you do all individuality Right into your space. 

Anything else. 

So, so I'm asking why we prefer car At the expense walking At the expense of walking, right? 

It would be wonderful if we have, you know, so much space that we can accommodate for cars, and we have Space for other modes of transportation as well, Like American suburbs. 

It's has a lot of, um, you know, sidewalks, a little bit Suburbs, not you know further away, And because it's so much space, But not a lot of people walk anyway, Australian as well. 

All right, um, one answer in in the chat is, Um, Because the way, and this is sort of a really good answer. 

It's sort of urban planning perspective, because all the facilities that we built for our daily life are not in one place, and they are scattered in various places, so you cannot have The ability to access to all of them unless you drive, Right? 

So, it sort of goes back to what Patty was presenting about. 

The 15-minute City concept, like in Paris, even though you know, my, My, my friends in Paris, hate The hot summer 15 minutes series. 

I will go back to that because they, you know, they drive, but anyway, but um, but it's interesting, right? 

Because the idea of the 15-minute City is that you should be able to get access to basic facilities or basic services in life Within 15 minutes of something, walking or biking, or maybe driving, I don't know. 

But anyway, it goes back to the point that a lot of things that that we need in our life are really not within The walking distance. 

Otherwise, you know, all of you would be living close to Tula already. 

I, I assume now let's let's. 

Let's fast forward to um To the current time Other than the fact that, Um, you know, Patty presented the argument for, Um, For Sustainable City in general. 

Like, you know, low carbon decarbonization and stuff like that? 

Um, so how, how would you argue for walking? 

Why do we need to promote walking in the city? 

Now, I mean, there. 

There are a few things missing from, Uh, from various presentation, but we can go through it. 

Walking is better because it's low, low carbon, saving the energy close to the world. 

But what else? 

People are. 

People are Dying from ncds. 

Do you know ncds Noncommunicable diseases, Right? 

Um, Covid was communicable diseases, Most not most. 

A lot of people now die from a lot more people now die from incidents. 

Non-communicable diseases, Such as Such as, What do? 

What do people die? 

Why are you? 

You're so young, you don't think about that. 

I'm closer to that. 

So I, I think about how I'm going to die, but What causes death In most parts of the world Cancer? 

Yeah, Oh, heart, yeah, yeah, so like heart related Related, I have to because it's not just heart attack, right? 

I mean, there are many other things. 

What else So? 

Well, yeah, stroke. 

Yeah, but basically, Things. 

Yeah, but basically Things related to our lifestyles, right, You know, we die from what we eat, basically right, right? 

I mean, it's it's kind of, you know, um, More, bit to be even talking about it. 

But, but that's, that's that's where we are now. 

We don't really die from Wars much anymore. 

We don't really die from Wars much anymore, Uh, not, from, you know, um, not really. 

And so, one way? 

And so, one way, Uh, you know, is, is, to promote walking, you're active, you know, vulnerability, so that people will move, you know, their bodies, um, You know? 

Throughout the day. 

I mean, you know, look at some places where you see, like, you know, even here, One step up of the stairs you lose, you know, like one? 

How much? 

I don't know how much, I don't know if it's even true, like one calorie, five calorie 10, calorie. 

It's because hey, just walk. 

So, so that's one. 

But what else? 

Why do we want to promote walking? 

Yeah. 

Exactly! 

No, I mean, you're laughing. 

But, but look at Science Square, You know? 

I think I told you about the history of science paralytic victim, and it used to be, you know, way, way back then. 

At the beginning was in the middle of nowhere, there was nothing there. 

And then it was a slum. 

It was really like, you know, low-income housing slum Before the first wave of gentrification that you know to build shop houses with a market and then shop houses, you know, um, you know? 

When it was really, uh, Times Square was the place for young people to come and hang out. 

And you know, to be seen, you know, movies and stuff like that, um. 

And then about, I was saying, you know, 15 years ago, or maybe 20, I would say 15 Siam is dying. 

Yeah, you wouldn't believe it, right? 

Because you haven't seen it. 

Siam Science Square was dying, because um shops will close. 

We're closing because Shoppers try to shop online. 

Uh, people moved online, so places like that were like, why would I need to come to Islam Square when I just, you know, click, click, click, and order some clothes and stuff. 

But with the BTS and all that, and with the pedestrianization as you see, you know, the main Corridor of Science Square People are back, and I sometimes wonder, like, What are people doing here? 

When are they even Shoppers? 

They're not right, but somehow, as you said, walking contributes to the economy. 

Can you, can you explain a little more the The Logical flow? 

I mean, you are right, but what's in the middle? 

Why walking contributes to the local economy, Food traffic, right foot traffic? 

I mean, that's really important, right? 



1:54 PM
The whole reason why? 

The ground floor, the first floor, You know, uh, shops Sell much better. 

It's because people don't want to walk upstairs, Right, and any place that That people can walk through. 

You have more probability of being seen as the seller, Right? 

As you know, the foot traffic, All right. 

As you know, the foot traffic, All right, so food traffic has become the key to businesses that have physical presence. 

That's why certain locations are considered better because people walk through it Right then. 

The interesting thing? 

I mean, you know if if your architect and Urban designer, Um, some department stores some malls? 

Now, try to make the space Outside the building as It was part of the of the sidewalk. 

I mean, you look at some, you know, order of um, Uh, places that would make clear separation between sidewall and the building, Right, that in some cases they kind of want their space to be hard beside. 

More so people will not walk only on the sidewalk, but kind of come into the space. 

And then there'll be shops just in the front, right? 

So, it means that they understand now that walking makes money. 

What else We have the health support health reason? 

We have economic and financial reason. 

Paradoxically, while people walking these same people, Right, paradoxically, um, Assuming assuming that, um, you know, by the way, I, um, your argument is correct that that, well, correct, as in logically correct, um, If more people are, We can assume that fewer people will be driving, But even people who drive unless they are handicapped still have to walk Right and, and I remember, and this is, this is a fantastic, um statement, um, I don't. 

I don't recall her name. 

She was part of the vraf, um, Walking as a as a mode of transportation team, She said. 

We have to Of other modes of transportation transportation as the extension of walking Human are born to walk, And other things are just the extension, so don't think of walking as the French of other words of transportation, but we have to think like we were born to walk and other things hell as walk farther away farther Right, and when I heard that I was, like, oh wow, yeah, she's right. 

We have to think of micro Mobility. 

We have to think of cars. 

We have to think of other modes of transportation as the extension Of walking, not the other way around, Right. 

But somehow, we used to think of walking as the French. 

We don't care about walking. 

Lets us move by cars first and walking. 

We can figure it out later, Right? 

So, prioritization Of bullets becomes a critical thinking here, Right? 

So, so, So let's Beyond that, Right? 

If we promote walking, hopefully, or arguably people who will drive less? 

If we promote walking, hopefully, or arguably people who will drive less, But what else, What else? 

What else could be? 

I recommend Socialization. 

Okay, so socialization, right? 

So, I'm not sure if you've read that yet. 

Um, and I'm sorry, I don't know. 

Good literature in French or in Chinese or other Scholars, you know? 

I know that there are out there, But Your argument. 

Maya reminds me of Jane Jacobs, You know, when she wrote about, you know, the rise and Falls of Great American cities and her argument was like, look at the sidewall. 

There's so many socialization going on in a cycle, right, You know? 

Mother with her child would be walking, and she would be, you know, stopping by talking to the neighbors. 

But if you drive, you're not gonna get to talk to anybody, Right? 

It's, well, it's wonderful. 

It's private. 

It's your alone time, Right? 

But hey, if we are still social animals, we still need to talk to somebody Right, which means socialization is very important. 

You're not just as the society as a whole, but You know something a person needs Right by walking? 

Oh, you can see the world. 

And, you know, talk to people and stuff like that. 

But, you know, I mean, I, I compare, um, You know, my, I guess, um, childhood, and my, my nieces and nephews. 

They live in engagement. 

They walk to, uh, you know, a driver, Uh, driver's car, who would take them to their private school and the same driver would pick them up and bring their bring them home. 

They never get to socialize with other people. 

Then live is Limited To a private house In a gated community and a private school and in the car in the private school and come back, right, versus? 

I remember, I mean, you know, I had a lot of fun, you know. 

In Chiang Mai, you know, Hanging out on the sort of songtel, you know, the converted truck, and there were, you know, like, you know, Merchants there and other students there, blah, blah, blah. 

So, these are two different live worlds, right? 

The lift experience, Right? 

Coming back to the key concept of this class, the lift experience of walking is very different from the lived experience of being in the car all the time, good and bad. 

We can argue, but being building on that argument about socialization, What else can you argue for walking? 

Build sense of place, but can you explain it's it's good, but could you elaborate it a little more? 

It's quite slow, But it was available. 

So, walking helps, Um, build a sense of place. 

What's the benefit of the sense of place Individually and Socially? 

I mean at the societal level. 

Why? 

Why censorplaces? 

Good for us. 

Possibly, it makes us care about the place because it makes us clear. 

Caring is a good thing individually, or is that good for society? 

It's culture, Society, right? 

But why is it good for us? 

The the part about, you know, um, Having the sense of place, and it's good for the society. 

Maybe it's, you know, collectivism, argument, right. 

Society has to collectively work together. 

We cannot be alone, but why is sense? 

A place is good also for us individually. 

I've eventually if I am a kid, Not get lost easily. 

Okay, so I guess you know it's a sense of place is good for development. 

Cognitive development Personality development, you know, in interpersonal relationships, blah, blah, blah? 

All right, so that's fine What else, what else? 

If if you are really arguing for walking City and why it is good, So we covered, Um, economic, Uh, social. 

Yeah, yeah, So your argument? 

I'm sorry, I have to repeat it because people cannot probably hear you This. 

You're basically arguing that if you walk in your neighborhoods, You kind of know How to deal with, you know, disasters when it happens. 

But if you don't know, Youtube, okay, good, good good. 

It's kind of good Politically. 

Why Wise walking better? 

To whatever in Boston. 

I'll be there ever and constantly count. 

Why is it? 

I mean, the argument is good, but I'm just wondering, why is it political Political? 

In what way? 

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I mean, this is a touchy issue. 

Political. 

Um, and because you know, we come from different shades of democracy and governance here, but? 

Um, and because you know we come from different shades of democracy and governance here, but Fact the argument for walking politically Is When you walk, You are almost equal. 

Because even a rich person can still get hit by a car, Right? 

So, walking Supposedly supposedly is the most democratic form of Mobility Did. 

Did you do you buy that argument? 

Do you understand an argument, like, because I mean, like, for example, Right? 

You can tell, um, You can almost tell the economic and social status of people by their cars. 

The other day I saw somebody driving. 

Not a driver. 

Actually, not a driver, not the chauffeur. 

Supposedly like looking like the owner is driving it, you know, fancy? 

Secondly, almost easily tell the economic status of the person. 

Maybe the depth level we don't know, but When walking, We are almost equal, Right? 

No, but it's the shoes, right? 

Well, but that's a good point, Right? 

That's cool. 

You can still show by walking All right, but Walking as the mode of transportation itself, Yes. 

Because I was thinking. 

Because I was thinking, You know, my role in this class is to be, you know, a continuous Devil's Advocate. 

I've seen people honking their cars as they protest, so we do see cars As the mode of protests as well. 

We don't see a lot here in Thailand, but in the U.S, the drive-ins. 

Yeah, the drive-in in Australia and in the US where people would drive in and watch Cinema, right? 

But it's not the same as going to a movie theater, and then you see other people stuff like that. 

There must be some sort of like energy, right, the human Mobility, the human interaction on there. 

So, In that regard The Um, there's something about walking That draws people together, Cuz then you're face to face. 

There's some human energy that you can get out of walking, versus you have some vehicles that that protect you but insulate you from other people as well. 

All right, so It seems like we're we're supporting walking, I guess In in. 

What context walking is bad? 

Like, we don't want promote walking in this particular context 5 minutes Highways. 

We don't want people to walk there, So walking Is also suitable for certain contents. 

Not all. 

I guess we don't people to walk on the highway. 

So, so in this case, the argument is for separation or right away, right, dedicated spaces. 

Okay, so that's, that's an interesting. 

Before I go to YouTube, It's an interesting concept, and it was actually experimented And tested. 

Um, in certain new towns, There is a particular Mew Time in sort of the suburbs of Tokyo called Tama mutant tama, Um, In that new time, which was built in the '60s, the '70s. 

I forgot When you think of a site when you think of pedestrian, uh, right away, or walkways is usually by the road, Right? 

So you have the road And you have the sidewalks. 

So, when you see the road, you see the sidewalls as well, But the idea promoted back then, and a few new towns, Um, we're adopting. 



2:11 PM
We're clear separation between the two systems. 

You have the systems of roads for the cars, and you have systems for walking and bicycling. 

There are a few in France as well that you have the roads for cars, and it's totally separate networks, Uh walking, and basically, Right? 

I'm not forgetting to you too yet. 

But let's, let's think about the the The benefits and this benefits of having two separate systems there. 

What could be good? 

Why, why? 

Back then, Planners and designers thought it would be good to have two separate systems of walking Bicycling, usually basically when walking in the same. 

And then the roads. 

Well, they're not her at all. 

Sorry, Less accident, so it's safety, right? 

The argument for safety? 

What else? 

Will be faster. 

If there is no problem, right? 

Cars can go much faster, so it's more efficient as well. 

For cars, Right? 

Because I mean, if you think of, you know, basic concepts of transportation Is Mobility and accessibility, Right? 

Mobility is when you want to move fast. 

Yes, that's the concept why they have the road hierarchy, Um Theory or concept there, right? 

You have the highways you have, like, you know, the Autobahn in Germany? 

No speed limits. 

Crazy! 

It's fun, But when you die, you die, Fewer accidents. 

But when you die, you die, Right? 

I remember, you know, I was doing my internship in Germany, um, a long time ago, and you know, my, my lap lab mate, Say, oh, happy, let's go to see the concert we were out. 

I mean, so it's sort of Northern North Wet, not North West Germany, Um, let's go to, uh, Frankfurt, for a concept that's like. 

That's like far, so no worries, And he was driving, you know, folks fucking. 

We got there in, like an hour and a half, or something like two hours. 

No worries, there aren't a lot of accidents. 

No worries, there aren't a lot of accidents, But that he didn't tell me that when there is an accident, usually people just die, Right? 

That's another story, but you're right. 

Safety and cars will go faster. 

What else Separation? 

Right? 

So it's a it's a safety issue. 

Yeah, it's a safety issue, Uh, usually, you know, um, Because of less conflicts, no random kids jumping out from the sidewall, you know, bicycle cutting, its way, you know? 

Right, the environment is nicer, right, because on the next to you are not the cars that has all the fume and exhaustion and right, and the exhaust and all that right. 

So you would go through pods, and it's actually really nice. 

I remember going to Tamanutan I'm doing for my undergrad and studying, and it's like you're walking in the park. 

You walked from your house through the parks, and then you get to the station. 

You don't fail. 

Is the solution Along the way, Right? 

All right. 

Apparently, It wasn't successful. 

What could be the? 

What could be the The the downside of separating the two systems of walking bicycling versus Um roads class? 

Right there, Right? 

It goes back to the concept of path dependency, Right? 

If you decided to walk, you have to keep walking, Right? 

It's not like, oh, I can't walk now. 

Can I just call like an Uber? 

Can I just like, you know, call a motorcycle taxi. 

Can I call a taxi? 

You can't, right? 

Because the system is very different. 

Once you walk, you walk All right. 

What else? 

Why, wouldn't I mean, you don't see a lot of this kind of Urban Design, right? 

Yeah, but there are there are places like that. 

It's kind of cool. 

It's really cool. 

But Other than you know, The path dependency of the design fire. 

Those type books are really like they don't. 

Ah, give me like when the cars have accidents or something. 

Like, if the car accident is not equal in terms of. 

Ah, yes, yes, For example, right, very good. 

Is social inequality, right? 

Because if you have more specific right away, especially cars, it means that only people with cars can go faster and can only use specific entrances and assets, right? 

So it does automatically build in some Biases, Right? 

Because If there is only cars going there, you have. 

It's almost like Highway, Right? 

You have to be specific aware the cars and go in and come out, Which means there's no walking in between. 

You go in, and that's it, right? 

Okay, that's one argument, Sure. 

Yeah, No, cuz they would drive from their house out to the road and go straight elsewhere and the station. 

Maybe there will be there would be. 

Yeah, there will be roads that people can drive from their houses to other facilities and the cars. 

To the part they can, but they drive to the park And walk in the park. 

You know, what? 

I mean, there's a there's there's a broad to the party, But they cannot just walk through the park To wherever they want to. 

That's, that's the point. 

They can go to the apartment, of course. 

But anyway, so I don't want to, you know? 

It goes on to another issue with that sense of place. 

It's actually don't have different sense of directions. 

It's weird, it's. 

It's one of the experiments that I read somewhere actually from Japan that kids growing up there don't have that sort of disassociation between roads or the cars and sidewalks and in their own place that There are two separate systems Do that bad. 

We don't know, but it's just that somehow it's screwed up. 

The the sense of directions, All right, so, but anyway. 

Um, That's one, you know, experiment that we have about walking. 

Now, my question Goes back again. 

There's a second one. 

Sorry, there's All right, Um? 

Coming back to going back to, um, Patty's presentation a little bit. 

She was thinking she was arguing that Implicitly Walking and micro micro Mobility should be considered as part of the overall Mobility system. 

That's the daily argument, right? 

Um. 

If you were to change, I mean, obviously, at this time, everybody here in Arizona. 

Whatever you see at the moment in Babcock And try to make it such that walking and micro Mobility. 

Let's take walking first because my micro Mobility is a different animal in itself. 

If you want to make walking truly part of the urban Urban Mobility systems, Which part would you fix first That ends the dead ends? 

He didn't say, oh, let's fix the sidewalk. 

He didn't say, oh, let's fix the sidewalk, Right? 

It's so, fixing the sidewalk is fixing the side wall fixing the infrastructure. 

But my question and good answer. 

My question is about the system level solution. 

Are we not talking about? 

Hey, let's fix the the sidewall and hopefully facing the sidewalk will induce people to walking more, Right? 

But, but this solution points to the fact to the fact or the hypothesis that the reason why people don't walk or cannot walk. 

It's not because the sidewalks are bad. 

I mean, they're all bad, Right? 

But because Off some system level factors and one is The dead ends. 

Why? 

Why are why fixing the dead ends will help with a sidewalk? 

Oh, with a rock So online or choice, people can choose different path to the same destination, right, right? 

So the paths will be shorter. 

Basically, that's the point, Right? 

Because if, if you know, you see, on the map of Bangkok all the time, right? 

It's like, um, I call the fishbowl, uh, pattern, Right. 

The fishbone pattern is like, you have all these dead ends in order to go into the other soil. 

You have to go out to the mainstream and back in again, Right? 

Like where you go? 

I'm not sure you get to go to the gym, tungsten's house. 

It's fine, it's expensive. 

So, if I have to go, but anyway, the Jim Thompson's house is, uh, the same son, one near the National Stadium station. 

But there's another soy on the other one, but you can't go there, you see it, but you can go because they're all deadheads, right? 

So supposedly, the grit pattern, Like in Chinese European, you know Japanese cities or even some, you know, South American cities? 

The Greek patterns are slightly better. 

Well, much better because you can design where to walk At the system level. 

What else? 

Yeah, yeah. 

It's related to the dead ends, right? 

The super block right here, the super block. 

As you know, you know you have the tier one level, um, You know, big streets, but then you don't have the second level, right? 

The hierarchy is supposed to be the distributor Road Right in that little, uh, you know? 

Access roads, right? 

Nope, you go from to the access world. 

There's no distributor in between right, and then, because it's not, You know, at pre-adjusted. 

I guess The the blocks is so big, It's very difficult, So you want to fix that. 

All right, what else, Sure? 

Yeah, it's possible. 

Um, Well, are you asking me in terms of legally or Man you kept? 

We are not like, I know, I'm I don't know France, but we're not like, um, some parts of Germany that I know, Uh, in for sure. 

Sweden that pedestrians have the right way, even on private property. 

I don't, I don't think in. 

In China, you have not. 

I don't know if you can find it. 

I would love to know. 

Basically, there's a piece of land It owns by a private person, Right own. 

As in, maybe, you know, long-term property, right? 

Pedestrians have the right of way to walk across the field. 

There are places like that, But no, not, not here, right? 

So, it goes back to the concept of property, right, right? 

Property, right? 

Is it just the right to bill? 

Is it the right to access? 

Is it the right to sell, Right? 

But here, um, the protection of private property right is very straight. 

So, You can't say I'm on the wall? 

Let me walk, but in other places, yeah, in. 

In the US. 

Sometimes they make it almost like a what they call. 

Um, what they call, Um, Easement and variance easement, is called easement. 

So some people have, Strictly speaking in Thailand, we do, Um, But it has to happen before the development. 

Like, for example, my house and my parents house in Chiang Mai, Uh, our house is further in, And people in that Community have been walking there for, like, hundreds of few years, and somebody else built it, you know, built something in front. 



2:28 PM
They cannot block the access. 

Up, but if if the walking happens After, you cannot clean it has to happen before. 

Now in that in that way. 

For the Speakers or So, it's, it's the access that you need to give to the to The Pedestrians Because there are public they're considered public access, Right? 

But in your case, I don't think you know. 

They probably claim that people have not been walking that road before. 

If there was a road, But then it was publicly used and somebody built a condo, and you can keep walking. 

Yeah, that's that's sort of the fine, you know, print? 

All right, but that's a good point, though, because they're actually, interestingly, there are a lot of, um, places that we walk through All the time. 

And they're not. 

Um, Um, We, we're not really is everything. 

Okay, Sorry, Oh, who found it? 

Oh, there you go. 

Oh sorry, what did you lose Your phone? 

Oh my God, Oh, good thing. 

Thailand is to save. 

Yeah, Okay, but I would think yes, yeah, all right. 

Good thing, so vmj is good. 

Yeah, all right. 

Yeah, okay, so there's still some hope entire entire Society, I guess. 

Let's see what happens on Sunday. 

That's another story in it itself, but anyway. 

So, um, coming back to walking, but think about it. 

We walked through Private places, And I see people walk coming through Chula. 

So, this is the interesting part. 

How can we promote that at the system level, Cuz I mean in your case? 

Maya, thank you for the case. 

We see on the map, there's a road there. 

Why can't I walk? 

It's not a dead end. 

Physically, it's not a physical deadhead. 

It's a legal data. 

How can we do it? 

How would you do it? 

We're talking about Solutions here. 

Negotiate, Interesting, negotiate, with whom their land owners right, How would you negotiate? 

What incentives? 

Because the building is already built, Got pre-building negotiation could work, Right? 

So that's, that's, that's, that's. 

That's um at the permit level, Right? 

Once it's built if they build something, they block something you cannot do anything. 

Now, it's the role of the planner and designer. 

That's where why we need to have pre-approval, Um, review, Right? 

I mean, did you eat all the time in Singapore? 

Us, Europe, Japan. 

Planners will look at the plan and the design As a developer asks for Permit to build The look at the fur, and they're like, you know, if we could get more accessibility by walking, This could be good for you and for the community, Right? 

Cuz you walk around in Akon, you see a lot of buildings that are connected to one another, But they're not connected. 

They're right there. 

There's just one wall. 

Like, if you go to, for example, um. 

And there's that space in front of Waterfront, But It's not really connected to the next door. 

Building the Intercontinental building, where I think it's intercon right. 

Or here's a Millennium. 

It's like you can almost jump. 

It's like, you can almost jump If they're not connected. 

It's because, well, obviously, they didn't want to be connected, but that's the role of the government. 

That's the role of planners. 

Now, you could do it before you approve the plan. 

And that's negotiation, Right? 

Or you can do it after. 

It's harder, but you could. 

What else would you do? 

What else have you seen that is supposedly a private Lane, Katondo, but people are walking? 

Yeah, It is private. 

Yeah, yeah, and nobody stopped you, Right? 

Because they think you're going to the hospital, maybe? 

No, no, Nobody stops you. 

There's another sort of. 

There's another sort of Ad hoc Urban urbanism Happening. 

Here, I seen a few new places. 

Sort of what what you mentioned expect with something beyond that. 

Think of think of you are walking experience. 

Everybody you are, I'm sure. 

Have you done any shortcuts through any private properties Or even public properties? 

Yeah, you have. 

Pharmacy, The pharmaceutical, the pharmacy, faculty, faculty, and the fence course after coffee. 

Oh, you jumped, okay, Oh at the park. 

Yeah, okay, okay. 

And after six, I think one four that's bad, But that's sort of public. 

Yeah, you can. 

I'm sure you've done some shortcuts. 

Think of the places where you've gone through your lift experience of shortcutting Cemeteries in the US, right? 

Yeah, yeah. 

But, uh, but that's sort of quasi-public, right? 

Yeah, And they're not as scary. 

I mean, Yeah, there are not like, you know, cemeteries in Thailand. 

They're creepy. 

I mean, like, you know? 

I mean, like, you know, Graveyards are so beautiful In European cities. 

It's so green. 

Architecture is nice, but here, here. 

When you do a shortcut here, where do you go through? 

Oh yeah, yeah, of course. 

Yeah, through the models, right? 

It goes back to the. 

It goes back to the, Uh, food traffic. 

They want you to go through that place so you build it, but I don't know if the place where you could go through is, Um, commercializable. 

You see a lot of um Places in In Bangkok that you know they have some, like um boats beside ruined by the This side road? 

So? 

Roots that are not Indicated as Pathways. 

Yes, Okay, so I guess we can no longer Escape Google then, Cuz I used to think, like, certain you know parts are not part of Google. 

Yeah, it's pretty short now. 

They should be able to come back to Sorry. 

It's All right, All right. 

So, what else could you do at system level to improve walkability Thailand, Bangkok? 

Let's clear the systems first before we go to the governance. 

The master plan. 

Oh, you're saying, yeah, you're not actually interesting. 

We don't have micro Mobility plan, so all right, I buy it. 

We don't have micro Mobility plan, so all right, I buy it. 

What else System level? 

How would you? 

How would you? 

How would you improve walkability then? 

I don't like this room. 

Yes, yes. 

So, that's another, Uh, system level solution there. 

Cause walkability is not just about or never well or little about fixing the cycle, Right? 

His argument is that is the land used stupid, All right, as fixed language and people will walk more, right? 

So, that's one argument, right, as as long as you can put things close to one another. 

People who walk Walking to school, walking to clinics, walking to shops, then system level. 

Solution includes Land use Solutions, Right? 

So, you want to promote mixed-use developments. 

You want to promote, you know, combination of things that are close to One another, All right, good. 

What else can you do system level? 

I think you need to write an essay soon, right? 

Yeah, Yes. 

Yeah, but what, what is your lift experiences? 

Book with walking and how you can fix it at a system level. 

Well, let's let's. 

Let's pick one pain point and blow it up And look at the the pinpoint from the system perspective. 

Why aren't you walking more In Bangkok? 

Okay, okay Dolls, so it's safety you're. 

You're no, no, no, I, I love. 

It's the pool. 

Yeah, you know, There are two different things you know safety and cleanliness, right? 

So those are two different things, but I remember, Um, somebody's telling. 

I forgot somebody who's living overseas for so long, And when she came back here to Thailand, she said she can walk because she would fall all the time because she walks straight without looking down, and you look at you. 

Look at the Thai people the way we walk, we always look deaf. 

It's like, it's like Urban hiking, Right? 

It's like, oh, that's a cat poop there. 

Dog stock there. 

There's like an even, you know, tiles, Right? 

So you need to jump over things, so it's kind of life is exciting, everyday, right? 

Yeah, you have to like build your cognitive responsiveness, but overseas is just like stroll and blah, blah, blah. 

You walk straight. 

So, here, you need to walk. 

You walk by looking down because you don't know what's on the sidewall, But that's a sidewalk situation. 

But let's, let's make it a more like a system solution there. 

Um, let's safety, Safety. 

How would you fix it Safety? 

Yeah, like? 

Yeah, like, Systematic, killing, Sorry. 

I'm pushing analog gear, but how would you fix the safety Of pedestrian where where the problem is? 

Where are the problems As such? 

So, it's infrastructure, Um, is it just infrastructure, though? 

I mean, when, when we talk about safety, let's, let's break the pinpoint one by one. 

Let's take her case of a a stray dogs attacking. 

How would you? 

How would you fix that problem straight? 

Dogs attempted. 

It's a bigger issue there. 

It's a bigger issue there. 

So, Do you think your your friend will walk more if there's Scary dogs? 

Take care of the dogs, so there are no stray dogs there. 

Okay, all right. 

The scary straight stray dogs? 

The scary straight stray dogs He would kill and he would. 

She would take care of the dog institutionally. 

Would you still walk? 

Yes, are you sure? 

Would you walk to school what you want to hear? 

I love dogs. 

I love dogs. 

Um, But there is, Yeah, Yeah. 

Access Buildings because I feel like I am going to sleep. 

So, so it's, it's the basis for Universal Design, right? 

Yeah, so, so this is basically, you know, in. 

In just this Theory, you're basically subscribing to, um, At the American philosopher, uh John Ross, who basically argue that, Um, you need to take. 

His argument is more complex than this, but the just about it is that you need to take care of the most disadvantaged person first In that situation, right? 

So, we're not talking about the Richer the poor in that situation. 

We're talking about whoever cannot access. 

The sidewalk should be taken care of first, Right? 

And that could mean inconveniences for other people As well. 

So, like, we can still walk. 

We don't like to have, say, you know, some special treatment Because it's inconvenience for us. 

If you subscribe to that theory of Justice, you need to take care of the most vulnerable person At that situation in that context first, So we'll do that. 



2:49 PM
Okay, so that's one Theory to guide it, but how would you do it? 

So, you build Universal Design everywhere. 

Like, that's why we have the, Um, you know, the guiding what they call tiles the yellow tiles for, you know, the blind? 

What else Safety that comes back? 

Let's come, let's come back to the safety issue Infrastructure. 

Obviously, this is infrastructure, But it's more, though. 

The reason why safety is a big issue? 

Can we really solve everything by infrastructure safety? 

I mean, like Women, don't want to. 

I mean, not just woman, but anybody Might be afraid to walk at night because he's not safe in general, Right? 

So, Install Thousands of CCTVs, maybe? 

Or, you know, That's not, but that's not in the mobility system itself, Right? 

So, safety is beyond. 

Some of them are beyond the mobility system. 

It's anything that social system, political system, other system now, so we can't just think of safety for pedestrians as infrastructure. 

I mean infrastructure definitely is important, But you could have bad infrastructure like, no CCTVs at all, but it could still be saved, Right? 

One cannot assume that having CCTV is everywhere. 

People would be safe. 

In fact, maybe you won't feel safe Because you have somebody watching you everywhere, Right? 

Like, I'm not sure if you know. 

Um, I assume you're not A tennis player, but Um, a female tennis player, Coco golf, Uh, who lost in her butterfly nose. 

Um, And, uh, you know, the Australian Open. 

It just happened last week, And after you know, she shook hands and left, you know, public eye as she was going back to the to the locker room. 

She was smashing her racket, And then that was shown. 

That was short, But that was, you know, I kind of see her point. 

She thought he was already private, but there's a camera there, Right? 

That would show Her personal act, Right? 

She already left, supposedly the public, Right. 

Supposedly, You see, CCTV is everywhere you are. 

You feel safe, obviously. 

But if you're picking your nose sorry, and you do something. 

And, You know, it's publicized, so power, right? 

So, it's that sort of trade-off a little bit. 

I'm not saying good or math, but we cannot assume that solving One solution. 

One problem By only infrastructure will create a complete sense of safety Because there could be unintended consequences. 

Is education, right? 

So, yeah, so it goes back to that as well. 

Like, for example, if you go to Again, you know, Um, sometimes here in Thailand as well, but sometimes we used to see a lot of this. 

In Japan, Small lanes. 

One more thing, like small lanes, would be dangerous. 

Nice tiny Lane, Um, you feel a little bit unsafe. 

Maybe because nobody is there If the general Society is safe, And if there is some sense of, you know? 

I don't know if it's education or something that could make you know people feel safer. 

But safety, though, Bring is. 

The fact that Thai people don't wear helmets? 

The fact that Thai people don't wear helmets. 

A lot of people don't wear helmets when they're on when we are on motorcycle. 

Some people just blame the police Because the enforcement is bad. 

Look at Vietnam, You know? 

Vietnam is much better than Thailand when it comes to enforcement of helmets Correct, But one could also think, like. 

But why don't try people Are? 

Why? 

Why can't we be more concerned about our own safety? 

And where are the helmets, Right? 

So, it's both ways. 

You can't just say, oh, because the the state, the government is not enforcing the law. 

That's why we behave that way. 

That's a little bit too childish. 

I think we have the agency or the autonomy to decide by ourselves what is safe and what is, not safe, All right, so we can have the help on our head. 

Same thing with walking, Right? 

I think so, All right. 

What else? 

Just infrastructure. 

The visibility. 

Is that so? 

So, there are two. 

Then, there are two Two angles to that. 

One is the safety of the pedestrian, Right? 

Because you because you can't see. 

But is that just the infrastructure issue? 

Like, if you, if you build the the sidewalls better With that matter. 

Right, but the state could say something about the wall, right? 

Because if you, if you, if you go as far as saying like, you cannot build that wall there because it's it blocks the visibility of the pedestrian. 

You could, right, if the design guidelines are very strict. 

You can make it in such a way that they cannot build that kind of wall. 

All right, so it's it's illegal. 

It's a governance issue that is not a infrastructure Because the government could say anything Really. 

I mean, you know, in Singapore anywhere, I mean, it's particularly a standards that, Uh, next to. 

But even here, even here, the wall next to public road cannot be hired at three meters. 

It's in the law, But he doesn't say about the type of law It doesn't say, specifically about where the wall should end, and not Right, because it's very detailed. 

So, really, I mean, the devil's really lie in the detail, So somebody raised ahead, Okay, all right. 

So, um, But here's another interesting, um, issue at the other angle that I want to raise. 

How do you feel as a pedestrian On a string that's full that that you can see The houses inside Versus one that has a wall? 

Which one is safer Where you can see the house? 

Yeah, it's okay, right? 

Well, you know, talking about what's happening in Bangkok. 

Say you go to school, and you know all that you see those fancy condos and what they do they. 

They have high walls, right? 

So, you basically walk along the walls. 

But before that, a lot of them were shop houses, So shop houses. 

You can see the shops along the way, so the Vitality of Of the stream is very different, Right? 

Maybe you know stuff like that, so? 

Maybe you know stuff like that? 

So, It's that sort of the little cognitive, I don't know. 

It's like, segregation. 

Yeah, if you go to, you don't see, you see a little bit here, obviously in Thailand, but the most striking place for me was South Africa And some parts of South America, Cuz you'll be walking, and you see only walls. 

You don't see the houses inside, Cuz it's wall walls, Right? 

The segregation is pretty obvious. 

Sometimes they feel like. 

Sometimes they feel like That there are no fences In how around houses in the US? 

Don't you feel weird going back or you grow up there? 

That's why you don't feel weird, Cuz I mean you go to, Right? 

Yeah, cuz if you go to like, um, Suburban, you know, areas in the US Big houses, but no walls, right? 

No walls. 

There are no walls, it's just laws next to the lawns. 

And, you know, my house and my my neighbor's houses? 

There's no wall. 

Yeah, Right. 

But there's there's a sense of security there, but you know, the the reverse logic? 

Is this when you have a wall, It's actually unsafe. 

Because once somebody goes inside, other people outside cannot see. 

It's the eyeballs, Right? 

There's actually an interesting study here That looks into how Motorcycle taxi drivers serve as the neighborhood watch because they see what's going on everywhere. 

Who's that? 

Who's that, Right? 

But if you have walls And whoever is walking, you don't know who's walking. 

I said, that's the difference sense of safety there. 

Okay, all right, that's the detail. 

How else would you fix the walkability problems in background Lamb years infrastructure Education Awareness? 

Is that it? 

Well, don't forget other modes of transportation Because it's impossible for us. 

I mean, as much as I want everything to be 15 minutes from my house, Trulized way too expensive to find a good, you know. 

House here. 

Around here, I still have to live, you know? 

I'm 25 minutes away. 

So, What can you do? 

So, improving other modes of transportation and public modes of transportation actually help. 

So, my own study, obviously, was a long time ago. 

So, my own study, obviously, was a long time ago. 

Um, we actually ask People who Who use the BTS. 

Uh, have we asked, you know, how much Do they want more once they shift to BTS? 

And the answer is yes. 

By shifting the mode, the main mode of transportation to the BTS People actually walk more, So it means that to improve walkability, you also need to improve other modes of other public modes of transportation, Right? 

Yes, people will walk along and the case in point, the infrastructure based solution, and you look at Chula. 

Yes, people will walk along and the case in point, the infrastructure based solution, and you look at Chula. 

You see the covered walkways right around the campus. 

It wasn't like that before. 

That was just probably 12 years ago that the university started building the covered walkway. 

You're just sidewalk, Right? 

But the university started building the cupboard. 

The rain? 

The rain, And so it goes back to your point about geography a little bit. 

People don't want because it rains a lot. 

It's too hot. 

Now, that's okay. 

I guess we can Does matter, But what else, What else can we do to improve walkability? 

Going back to your argument earlier. 

Why do we support? 

Why do we support and walking again? 

So, Yeah, so How would you use that theory of active Mobility of good health To promote walkability? 

So awareness campaign, that's what they can do. 

That's what they can do. 

It's. 

It's beyond that, um. 

It's beyond that. 

Um, If you can calculate, and some people have done it. 

How much Healthcare costs Would be saved would be reduced by promoting walking, Then the government could subsidize, You know, walking infrastructure more, Right? 

If you could, Some people must do it. 

I mean, researchers right walking would reduce your, you know, Your death rate by, You know, 1% Translate that 1% into some cost of Healthcare, Right? 

That's a lot of money, And we can use that money for public transportation or improving the cycle Mean that it's a clear logical flow Right. 



3:06 PM
And by the way, because of that logical flow, that's why my colleague, you know, at uddc and others? 

Get funding from the Thai health promotion foundation, Right? 

They have. 

They get money from what we call sauce. 

The Thai Health promotion Foundation, which is a lot of money Because the argument is that if you improve walkability, People would walk more. 

People become more active. 

They'll become less Susceptible to ncds That's straightforward, logical thought. 

Sorry, Experience, right? 

Tell me about every time again. 

Um, When obviously you like, um, right, right? 

Okay, so what else Okay if we use? 

Hey, give me a walk we don't use for you. 

Okay, So He is. 

He's stretching the argument there. 

He's talking about National Security there. 

Walking is nationalism, Right? 

Because if we walk, we don't need to buy, You know, um, energy, or we don't need to buy oil from other places, so everybody should walk. 

That's kind of cool. 

It's a little far. 

Yeah, but you could actually use that as a political campaign. 

We love Thailand. 

That's why we need to walk. 

I mean, they do this kind of campaign back in 1930s. 

Yes, they do. 

Yes, they do. 

Actually, They do. 

And you know, it goes back First thing first. 

If you tie anything to energy, we should stop, you know? 

Like using air conditioning, we should stop wearing suit Because it's too hot. 

We all should wear us a roll because it's the best. 

It's very nice and cool. 

So, yeah, Right, So that would be good for the country saving the energy anyway. 

It's good, though. 

Any other ways that you can argue for walking? 

You have to come up with this strategy now. 

Your strategist, So all right. 

So, what's that's the sort of the system part? 

What's the? 

What's the governance part that you want to Used to to promote walkability? 

What's the bottleneck? 

Why can't we walk Because we don't have a good Governor? 

Oh yeah, What is? 

Awareness can be People. 

People don't stop for pedestrian to cross right, and a lot of people get killed right at that spot. 

Well, I mean, it's it's, it's it's. 

I mean, it's, you know? 

I mean, it's, you know, The strongest, I correct me as I'm wrong, but the strongest place that I've seen All right, not personal experience, but I've seen is the US. 

If you don't stop for the district, police can actually give you the ticket That I don't. 

I didn't see that in Japan, But it was different. 

They stop because They see is as the social etiquette to do Sorry. 

It's cultural as well. 

Yeah, it's very cultural. 

Like because, like, I mean, one is train. 

I mean, you know, I was walking in a place in. 

Sorry, I keep going back to my familiar place. 

Brookline, Massachusetts, Uh, and this girl was walking across Straight. 

Obviously, there's a light there for the string, But is, is what was already read, But she was Walking slowly on her phone, Right? 

She was walking slowly on her phone. 

It was already rat For The Pedestrian, but it's already green. 

Whatever color you see for the cars, so the car honk And she was interestingly yelling At the car. 

This is interesting. 

This is one extreme, But that's that's one extreme. 

That's one extreme, though, right? 

Because now we asked, are we respecting the right of the pedestrian? 

Are we respecting the rule of the game? 

I'm not arguing one way or another, right, because the rule says that you can walk, but that's rare. 

You have to run, But that the car said the car was the car assumed to the law. 

The rule is something you need to observe, But the pedestrian basically argue for the right of the pedestrian, regardless of the rule. 

These are two separate values totally. 

I'm not advocating one way or another, but this is very cultural, right? 

So, in the case of Sicily, you said Sicily, right? 

If you think that the pedestrian has the right and beware anytime, Then the person should be able to walk and the car should stop It's. 

It's the argument, um, in New York, when they were finding jaywalking, Right? 

Cuz jaywalking would be fine. 

It turned out that you could actually walk, so jaywalking is no longer fine. 

You can just walk onto the street and the car needs to stop. 

Because the pedestrian has the right of way and the ultimate right, That's the law. 

So, this is the this is. 

This is very interesting because I mean, I'm, you know, I like you to think about this governance part. 

Are we governed by? 

Are we? 

Are we governing the behaviors of different actors by rules, laws, speculations? 

Are we governing somewhat by Just some sort of, you know, Norms, Right? 

Cuz. 

In the case of Sicily is Norm Or maybe implicitly, People know the law. 

I don't, Right? 

But, but we know that, you know, like, You see a lot like, a lot of times, even though, when it's red, you cannot walk across because it's red, But the car was still allowing you to walk. 

What is that? 

He's actually violating the law, Right? 

Because what is another car in the back hit him? 

He's at fault Because he's supposed to go through, But he stopped for The Pedestrian, Right? 

So, that's an interesting debate there, right? 

It, you know? 

It's too detailed for this class, but governance is really interesting, because sometimes you want to govern totally by law by rules and regulations, but sometimes you don't need the laws and regulations, But what's going to happen? 

If you know, say, a pedestrian in Sicily gets hit by a car Who's at fall there I, I mean it. 

It varies by the way, the answer it varies. 

And you know, it's very context specific, all right. 

So, Um, we still haven't gone too into, um, made for Mobility. 

So let's, let's do that. 

Who has ever been on a scooter? 

Yeah, in Paris. 

Yeah, in Paris, They banned the right healing scooter, the shared scooters, but they still allow personal scooters, right? 

At in Chula, we used to have free scooters. 

It was free as an experiment, But you don't see them in it. 

You are, why? 

Why not get accidents? 

So funny, I, you know, I had to go to the clinic. 

By the way, if you have any like, you know, minor Illnesses and injuries and something, go to WWE night building. 

There's a cleaning there has a you know to a student. 

You don't have to go to other places. 

Just go there. 

It's part of your tuition, and it's, uh, it's pretty good. 

Yeah, so they, they're good. 

They're fine, You know, you have to. 

It's, it's much easier than if you lift them too far from here. 

Um, and they open until six o'clock now. 

It used to be only until four anyway, so I went there one day And I was talking to the nurses And she knows that. 

You know, I'm I work in this space and working Faculty and just said a time. 

You need to tell the The management in the leaders To Because She they would have so many cases of students coming in with injuries, Injuries, and a lot of times, it's not injuries because they got hit by a car or something. 

It's their own doing. 

They, they cannot control the vehicle All right now. 

There are two sides of the same argument of the same coin. 

One argument is that, well, just let them use, and they'll learn then. 

Eventually, it's like bicycle, You learned how to, you know, fall, and then you becoming good basically. 

But the argument is that? 

No, It's faster and is more dangerous. 

So, so that's why you don't see a lot of the scooters here. 

You see, once in a while, once in a blue mood, they're actually kind of illegal still. 

But the the tricking part about this whole thing is, is, we don't, we don't need to go into the systems level because it's the same. 

It's mostly about integration, You know, blah, blah, blah. 

No infrastructure. 

The Crux of the of the of the tension Is the law. 

I want you to think about the city, country town, where you from. 

Is it illegal To ride a bicycle on the sidewalk? 

No, Yes. 

It's okay, it's legal. 

Okay. 

Well, we'll get to that. 

First, It's. 

Are you sure? 

Are you sure? 

Is it? 

Is it, I said in the law, or is it more than normal, Cuz here, or even in Japan Legally? 

Bicycles belong to the road, not to the sidewalk. 

So, The the best situation would be The sidewalk for pedestrian. 

The lanes for the bicycles and the roads. 

The lanes for the cars, trucks and others, right? 

But because we don't have clear separation of the lanes a lot of times, The bicycles Sometimes on the road, sometimes on the sidewalk, I don't. 

I haven't followed the latest. 



3:21 PM
My friend from Thailand Student in Japan, he was riding the bicycle on the sidewalk, And he hit pedestry in elderly. 

So he broke two laws, one riding the bicycle on the sidewalk was illegal, And two, he hit pedestrian. 

So it turns out the way they was doing this. 

It was really interesting as long as you don't hit anybody. 

It's legal, But the moment you hit somebody, it's double illegal, Right? 

But I want you to, You know, I, you can chat again. 

But maybe you're right, you know, I assume, you're right, but check a little bit, whether it's okay by the norm, because the police don't enforce the law, or the law actually allows bicycles to be on the sidewalk, Cuz Ashley here in Thailand. 

You're not supposed to ride the bicycle on the side. 

How about the US, You have no idea, right, Right? 



3:22 PM
They're doing it legally or illegally. 

Yeah, this is the interesting part about governance again, Right? 

That's why I keep stressing governance here. 

Are we governing it by Norms While we're governing it by law? 

Now your question, how about electric bicycle? 

Do you see electric bicycle on the sidewalk in China? 

You do see them, But they're fast, Right? 

No, So that's the interesting part again, right, governance? 

Again, What would you do with micro Mobility Well? 

In Japan, They need to register license. 

Sorry, It's not. 

It's okay, but you will be more liable in terms of insurance Because there's so many cases in Japan. 

Now that bison bicyclists hit, Um, hipped pedestrians, and there are even more Liable in some some cities. 

It's by Lorna to register Is registered for both, not just for the safety is for, um, for theft you're supposed to because you're supposed to pay the fee to the city for for using the bicycle In the Netherlands is the same. 

Yeah, so you need to register your biceps, But not here, All right. 

So, my question is that, For electric bicycles, Do you know the speed of electric bicycles, right? 

It's much slower than the scooters, scooters, and motorcycle taxis here. 

So the the gray area of registration becomes critical Both legally, but in terms of insurance, Could you get insurance For electric bicycles in case They get into an accident? 

It's difficult because they're not registered. 

The interesting part, I remember, um, you know. 

And this happened, Uh, three. 

Three years ago, when I was doing my, uh, visiting Scholarship, is it Fellowship Kyoto In the form? 

Did they ask me If you are going to get a bicycle? 

You need to get the registration and the insurance, Because what happens is that So many fellows have gotten into accident and have to pay like 10 million Yen for the damage by hitting and the interesting story again have too many stories. 

The very first day of my arrival in Kyoto. 

I was walking on the sidewalk and I got hit my girl, Like my first day, Like, oh my God, I got it, Uh, you know, bicyclist, and she did not have Insurance, But you know it was minors. 

It wasn't bad, but you know, I could actually have claimed, you know, for a test or something like that. 

It's fine, but it was pretty bad. 

It was, like, pretty, because it was hitting from the back and was, like, you know, it's like, what just happened, you know, I was just enjoying this Kura, you know, the cherry blossom and all. 

So, The interesting part about, um, Micro Mobility, especially ones with, you know, motorized microbability? 

We're not talking about bicycles here, Right? 

Because the the usual things about bicycles, you know, infrastructure is not there. 

It's not integrated, But now we get into micro Mobility. 

How would you integrate them? 

How would you integrate them? 

So, what would you do? 

What? 

What do you think of all these motorized? 

My capability options Should we promote them? 

Yeah. 

Yeah, yes, yeah, You know. 

The funny thing is that we say that. 

But at the beginning of the 20th century, When people started buying cars, A lot of people died from the absence, Die die from, like, right in the cars. 

I mean, I'm not saying that's a good thing. 

So, yeah, we do need that awareness campaign training Because there's no license, right? 

I mean, like, when we, When we, um, What do you call when, when we want to drive a car, We have to take the tests, right? 

We need to get training and stuff like that, but for bicycle, have you ever gone through any training course on how to ride a bicycle safely So that you don't need. 

No, we don't. 

But in the Netherlands, They do Because people hate other people with. 

It's so dangerous Because they go fast there. 

Signage? 

Yes, yeah, so infrastructure, But what else would you do now? 

Think of the whole system, because, um, the reason why I know a little bit about. 

This was a student, former student of mine from MUS from Indonesia, Uh. 

He actually looked into the Um scooter ecosystem in Bangkok three years ago, 2 years ago. 

The argument is, like, ah, it's not gonna work. 

It was hard the ecosystem is not. 

It's not mature at all. 

It's not even growing at all. 

Very limited suppliers, and usually it's more like hobby. 

Like, it's kind of cool, you know, kind of thing, you know, being on the scooter, right? 

No helmets stuff, But do you think it's still good we need to promote it? 

Yeah, why Did you have bicycle? 

We have bicycles. 

Why? 

Why do we need the scooters? 

We have bicycles. 

So, motorized Option allows for More distance, I guess. 

Further, yeah, and then better of accessibility. 

Okay, Yeah, yeah, And especially when it's hilly, right? 

Yeah, Bridges. 

Yeah, So I mean. 

In terms of Technology, it's a good option, But but um, but that's bicycle. 

I'm I'm asking about a scooter? 

Yeah, Okay, oh, you don't think so. 

Okay, let's. 

Let's debate. 

Google says we should still promote the scooter That the standing scooter. 

I don't know what it is called you multiple. 

I call it scooter, but then some people think of scooters as the sort of quasi motorcycles scooter. 

Anyway, let's call it scooter. 

What do you think of the scooters? 

Oh, the, the electric one. 

Yeah, You like it. 

Yeah. 

Right, But why, why? 

Um, why not bicycle instead of the scooter? 

What's what's good about it? 

Yeah, that's my argument. 

Other people. 

Oh, oh, okay, Because they threw it away, But you know, the Netherlands, you know? 

In the canals, you see a lot of like, Like, okay, a lot of bicycles in the canals. 

In the Netherlands, Sure, sure, so good, right, right? 

Good. 

Yeah, so now, we we're becoming more, um, context specific, Um, people. 

Now, In a more controlled environment, maybe you said, but in a sort of more open environment, maybe not Okay. 

But yeah, in Paris in Washington, DC, everywhere, Yeah. 

Well, this is so easy, you just. 

Well, this is so easy, you just. 

Yeah, well, that's what happened here. 

I mean, I remember one of the kids was, like, you know, having some blues, because, Yeah, she's stopping him. 

She just fell to the front. 

Well, at least you're very good at maneuvering then. 

But what, what, what could be an argument for this mode of transportation And against? 

I mean, it seems like it wouldn't fit into some Mobility Gap, Right? 

Cuz, I mean, there are several gaps that you see in the space, Right. 

This one is a little faster than walking. 

Is it faster than a bicycle Almost the same? 

If you want to buy, yeah, almost the same. 

So, in that regard, you are allow for bicycle, But you know, but it looks cooler. 

Oh, have you seen the one that people just stand on the? 

What is it called like a wheel? 

Yeah, I don't know what it is called. 

I'm supposed to know. 

It's like, we are one view and to just stand on it. 

And then like To, you know, unsafe you, but he looked cool. 

Yeah, he's oh, very cool, but you know, good luck. 

They do the for Taurus, right, in a few places, not here, because the infrastructure isn't support it. 

Because the infrastructure isn't support it, But? 

Because the infrastructure isn't support it, But These Mobility options. 

And again, um, Patty's not here, but she mentioned the tension between public provision And private provisioning, And you see a lot of shared bytes around. 

Well, welcome back to sharing part in a separate separate class. 

No public bites. 

Okay, I think that the conversation to it. 

Okay, I think that the conversation to it Public Banks Like, you know, the city of Bangkok, the BMA. 

We have public bodies. 

If you are about Resident and pay for it, why not? 

Why not? 

Scammer + 69 Do you get them And they usually come to ice? 

Yeah. 

Yeah, So I don't think it's gonna happen. 

Let's, let's start from. 

Should it happen first? 

Yes, well, let's. 

Let's do a normative policy question. 

Shouldn't we have public bytes? 

Yes, all right. 

Let's, let's do it here. 

Let's, let's be. 

Let's be sort of, you know, vocal? 

Yes, we should have publicly provided bicycles Okay. 

Okay, And no Right. 

No, okay, all right. 

Let's hear from, I haven't heard from you today. 

Why do we support public provision of bicycles? 

So choices. 

It's a matter of choices. 

Why? 

No Who pays? 

Yeah, Okay, why not? 

It's like shared buttons. 

It's like shared buttons Well, but that's the different model, Right, Right? 

Anyway. 

Yeah, okay, Our taxes. 

Yeah, how could Prove that, you know, like, your your backup residence? 

You pay the taxes, but then you have Some people from GMI coming in and used Bicycles registration. 

Okay, she has a technology solution there That's we get before benefits that our tax is still like the cost and, well, the the. 

Well, I shouldn't defend it, right? 

You have to defend them. 

Yeah, That's not my role to defend That. 

It does have public benefit. 

Yeah. 

Well, it's not profit, though, because you're not arguing for profit but benefit. 

Yes, Yeah, you still need to defend the benefit part. 

I'm Judge, Judy, yeah. 

Chocolate chocolate chocolate bun. 

It's not any public transportation. 

So, yeah, You can. 

You can meter. 

Yeah, the the benefit how you can meter the usage, right, how long they use how far they write it? 

Who they are? 

You can translate that into some health benefit, And it will not. 

It is not good for the stability The taxi driver That's spice. 

It's just transition. 

I mean, this is argument. 

Your argument is interesting. 

It's good, right? 

Just transition, right? 

Because we talk about decarbonization, we talk about shifting, but hey, people who are stuck in the old model. 

What do you do with them the the old man who cannot buy electric vehicles right? 

By the way, I mean, I, we Faces all the time at the moment, you know. 

I told you one project that I'm working on is about, Uh, you know, uh, bus Transitions By bus licensing and all that, and one argument from existing operators of classes is that we don't have money to shift to new electric buses. 

You need to subsidize us, so that's the argument sort of what you say. 



3:42 PM
Yeah, so it's a valid argument. 

Yeah, we're losing their jobs, because yeah. 

Oh yeah, of course. 

It's not just you, other people. 

You conduct them being a free writer, so we have Ministry of paper so we can transition them to another job to that system. 

Maybe there is it in my my prices and them to become a bus drivers, and it was simply in the expertise against? 

Oh, we don't have enough by bus drivers. 

By the way, no, I mean, he's actually serious in most countries. 

Um, especially in aging Society, We don't have enough transport workers. 

Yeah, it's a it happens in Europe. 

I don't know the US, but Thailand as well. 

The drivers of public transportation modes are getting older, and no new workers. 

Yes, The government should, Right? 

Yeah, but okay, Let's? 

Let's no, but this is good argument. 

This is good debate. 

I'm sorry that you know it's two, four, six, seven, seven, and two, but then you have to. 

You have to explain that. 

Why is it not happening? 

Why don't we have more public bicycles? 

Oh, because you said, because people are stealing, Is that it? 

They don't have. 

They don't have, But they do have thieves, but you know, it's so safe, that sorry, I keep bringing places that I know. 

We know that Japan is safe And yet, or no public bicycles in Japan. 

We know the Singapore is safe. 

There are no public bicycles in Singapore. 

We know China is safe and no public bicycles in China Public. 

They don't have enough budget. 

Okay, so are you saying that we should now prioritize Subsidizing bicycles? 

But, you know, we do subsidize bicycles for school, Uh kits here In some remote areas, not insidity. 

Yeah, so we do have that, but we're not subsidizing bicycles in general. 

Sorry, Oh, okay. 

There you go. 

You're just convinced your friend, Right? 

Okay. 

So, I guess we. 

To talk about. 

Well, that's, that's chicken and egg, though, right? 

Because if you want it, you will subsidize it. 

For all. 

Well, I mean, it's it's it's. 

It's hard, you can, never some. 

You can never support everybody, but at least you can support somebody. 

So it's just a matter of picking whom you want to support first and grow them. 

But, but you are raising some A question about. 

It's a fascinating study that I was in the same room with this person last year. 

In Gutenberg, It was the study of the Netherlands, again, the bicycle, And how bicycles Are making people walk less. 

It's the Netherlands, so it's such an interesting case, right? 

So, basically, if you promote bicycles, people will walk less. 

Right, right? 

So, so that's kind of interesting, because that's model competition there. 

All right. 

So so, So I guess it's not a big deal from our perspective, but apparently it's a big deal there, But you know, there's a serious sort of moral competition between walking and bicycling, And they don't want everybody to Use the bicycle because they don't have enough space for parking the bicycle. 

It's so, like, such a developed world, right. 

It's, it's a problem of the rich or the fortunate, but no, it's a serious matter. 

Because if people don't walk And use the bicycle, you need more space for bicycle parking at stations at facilities, right? 

So, it goes back to Resource allocation problem, Right? 

Cuz I, now, I recall, like, you know, I remember going growing up in Japan? 

I have to Define my spot for bicycle, because if I were late, I would have no space into part my bicycle. 

No place to, you know, hook up the chain, Right? 

So, that's something to consider as well. 

So, it's related to your point. 

Capacity to accommodate the bicycle We? 

Capacity to accommodate the bicycle. 

We have a long way to go here, so I don't think we need to worry about that. 

But but again, Why, why? 

No, why? 

No public bicycles. 

That's the. 

That's the the question, why can't we do it? 

Are we really afraid that it's going to be stolen? 

That's why we're not doing it or. 

Well, look How different is a bicycle from a bus? 

Why is bicycle not considered mass transportation? 

It's, it's. 

It's sort of related to that Because this is, This is the basic Way of thinking about whether or not it should be public, private, or Everything in between. 

Is that gap between who Bears the cost, the taxes, and who receives the benefits? 

Is that gaps and balances So? 

We haven't thought that far right, but it's a good point who's liable, Right, Right? 

But it could because it could be because the bicycles were bad, Right? 

There's some, you know, like some tiles and the the brakes were not working Right, and the the the writer could sue the city for not facing the bicycle, Right? 

I already see some friends who are lawyers suing the city for, like, oh, this bicycle is not good, you know? 

I broke my jaw because the bicycle was bad, even though he or she was just writing it too fast, Right? 

It's really complicated, But but thinking, you know, in this class, I don't want to. 

Just, you know, like, talk about the random buy. 

This is all random, but this is precisely why we do need to think about the systems, the governance, and the lift experience. 

And we have to think, like, why not? 

Why can't we have public Bicycles Boston subsidized subsidizing? 

Um, the service is directly, so it means that. 

Um, the service is directly, so it means that As a city as a city government, it recognizes the public benefits Rather come from providing Semi public Bicycles, Not just buses anymore. 

If you think that buses and bicycles are almost the same, which is the number of people, then why not Right, but it did not want to get into those little things about, you know, the cause of operation and maintenance. 

Um, the cost of liability, Right. 

It basically shift the whole liability to the private operators, Otherwise the government will be sued. 

I all the time for broken, you know, gears, Uh, breaks, whatever. 

It means that. 

It means that The government or the university is actually subsidizing The operation. 

The service, Perhaps in kind, In kind, not charging The the docking space, not charging the, you know, the private operators for offering Back to the students at this time, right? 

So, the landowner or the organization does subsidize either directly By Tash, You know, hidden cash, or in kind, But it means that the government or the organization recognizes the public benefits of micro Mobility somehow. 

How far it goes. 

This is up to the debate because one of you guys were just discussing the bearing. 

What happened in the real situation, right? 

How can you prove that people are using the mics? 

How can you prevent you know some people to steal the bicycles, Right, which happened? 

So, this is the the kind of thing that you know you do need to consider as we think about, you know, these different modes, um of of transportation. 

And you know, I'm sure there will be other, Um, micro Mobility in the future As well, um, as an anecdotal story. 

If you go to Ho Chi Minh City, Go to the apartment, the cafe apartment, Um, right in the middle. 

It's very cool, But they charge you for using the elevator. 

I actually have a picture you need to pay to use the elevator. 

I actually have a picture you need to pay to use the elevator That's micro Mobility. 

That's privatization of public, but it's not exactly public. 

It's in the building, but you know, so any mode of transportation Could be considered, you know? 

One extreme of private provision, The Other Extreme of public provision With no more charge From roads infrastructure to the actual vehicle itself and other Associated Services. 

All right. 

Okay, we have four minutes. 

Just seen what would happen With micro Mobility markets? 

Do you think the scooters will die in gone? 

Like in Paris, they bam shared scooters. 

Do you see more people using private people would buy? 

Buy them, Are they? 

Are they supposed to wear a helmet Because they had, Oh, so they are not a little? 

This is like. 

That was very comfortable, right? 

And you're trying, you know? 

Like all these Mobility Innovations, You will see them coming, Cuz that's. 

That's the beauty of innovation, right? 

The niche that they can make him do, but over time, certain things would probably have to be reconsidered. 

You know, there was a wonderful exhibit, Uh, it's no longer there. 

The Cookenheim Museum, Um, not in New York, but in Dubai, Um, about Mobility Assist. 

Security Cars used to be used to be considered not only Innovative But environmentally good, You know why? 

In New York. 

Actually, Why was Carl consecutive environmentally good in the Nine yeah 20th century 1910s? 

Eventually, like, try using coal. 

Yeah, it's not. 

It's not that it's not the call. 

What were people using? 

Oh well, not that yet. 

You need to watch more like period movies. 

It was the horse, And there are hot chorus pool everywhere in the city Because they share sorry Everywhere. 

So the city was stinky Everywhere, So cars was considered environmentally much better because it was clean. 

This is the city didn't smell. 

I'll send you the picture and the news back then, So it was considered wonderful to have cars and 100 years later. 

Now we know we are talking about how bad cars are Right, so history is interesting. 

So let's leave that past that all right. 

Next week who is presenting Oh back to you! 

Next week is Parking! 

Oh, my ultimate Ultimate Enemy, All right good. 

So parking is next week. 

Looking forward to it all, right? 

Everyone have a good week! 

Stay Healthy So? 

