Yesterday 1:08 PM
Okay, All right, good, all right. 

Hey, good recovered. 

There you go all right. 

So, now we see again that Thailand is safe. 

Don't test it too often, Because eventually you will lose it, you know, not you. 

But now, other people's turn. 

No, no, no, I, I, Yeah, but you know the the issue? 

Is this, it's real interesting. 

Um, there was an experiment by an anthropologist Or social scientist, And he was testing. 

I actually know him. 

He moved from. 

Well, he he's an idiot. 

He was out of my team, and he moved to Pennsylvania. 

I think his test was actually, um, I think, Um, An envelope That has an address on it With a stem, and he would ask his friends and and students to drop it in random places around the world And whether or not the person or, you know, the random stranger will, yes, will deliver it, you know, to the post office or to post box. 

I forgot what the results was, but that was kind of a experiment to test whether people were actually Help. 

So, so don't test that with your Um, with your valuables. 

Okay, so we have two presenters, um. 

Would you like to go first or okay, all right. 

Oh, why am I on there? 

Okay, I can't be. 

Yes, you are now, all right, so you could share. 

And then I will Okay. 

And then. 

So, today is about parking, And I have some interesting stories to tell later About parking policies. 

And your microphone is all. 

Shame your face. 

They need to see who's talking. 

Okay, okay, thank you. 

Yep. 

Okay, Uh, okay, uh, for the week. 

This week teaching is parking, Uh, The concept of idea of on-free parking and Offspring parking Being presented present today. 

Uh, start with a onset parking first, it complete directly with the raw span, Which is, uh, which are occupy curve pair Board. 

Otherwise, we used as the traffic grain by plane, sidewalk of bus parody, And these are some children. 

This competition is strongly affect three incapacity and traffic. 

For The second is a cough cause of queefing and contention, Uh, when the price low or parking scan that will usually circle the Box for searching for the speed for parking And study link on street parking to increase congestion for use emission and also travel time, Uh, third one, definitely. 

I turn over and trust the oriented. 

All trademarking is more effective for short-term parking before a retail and services And Proper pricing and time limit. 

We improve turnover and access, especially in the commercial area, Uh, and the fourth one, uh, the powerful policy tool that can use the dynamic pricing permit and also time. 

Basic verification can reduce the cruising And improve our ability And also influence power behavior And looking toward that. 

From the article that quilting for parking, I picked, Uh, pie from the article that the curve parking is shaped or even free, but it's always fully occupied, And uh, uh, in the other hand, the opposite parking is effensive versus available in the Different, Uh, ankle from from that, that for the parking. 

The driver will pay with the time and therefore. 

The driver will pay with the time, and therefore, And also so herefore, I shifted to conjunction and pollution. 

So the times when cruising is a real pie of parking in in the entry parking? 

Uh, guy were more likely to prove and make. 

Parking is cheap or free in in Bank of Thailand for free and off that that the competitive Offspring is equity, so people tend to the cruising for looking for the shape the same one And for the parking relation is long, Uh. 

Driving around and time is various when compared to to the. 

Uh, the study found that in 2034, percent of traffic Policing for parking, Uh, the average third time for debugging is 3.5 to 14 minutes. 

So, in contribution for for this one, pushing for parking is not a drive problem. 

It's better, But pricing policing problem, Uh, next one, uh, Come to the off street parking, the the first first point that separate parking from the street conjunction. 

If Offset parking is like a parking lot of collage really, the pop worker from the Broadway and this video, the curve interference and improve the state efficiency And also include longer. 

Stay Is of the the facility is better suited for long-term parking, Residential use, or even a verb or computer trip Office parking. 

When staging longer or Writing it predictable, Uh, off your parking can increase card Car dependency, Uh, the minimum of parking requirement is often increase the building cost and encourage car ownership of the country That many studies he decided oversupply of Offspring parking. 

We were undermining public transport and walkability And last one. 

Day and night, And also can use minutes using sensor pricing System, Uh, the next, uh, Pi is a park and ride Facility in Bangkok, Uh, why power, right, matter, if help reduce the traffic congestion by encouraging commuter to ship private from private car real-time system Is expand the real transit equation area. 

We are walking, striking out federal public transport And especially important in the area that the feeder service are weak or unavailable. 

This benefit that the evidence of the module study Park and why can reduce a cover with 10, Uh, ever end, welcome. 

Kilometer travel. 

Did you buy around 10 kilometers 10 kilometers per day That that Greater reduction at the stationary trial from the CBD area, About 20 minutes per day And also the area catchment areas x to 20 kilometers. 

However, they have some abstraction effects occurred. 

The abstraction effect will be people That previously used the perfect transfoil. 

They ship to use car because the parking becomes available. 

That might Make could be some poignant of the the part right And key challenges for the part right in Bangkok. 

First, one answer of demand. 

Definitely. 

I high demonstration. 

It usually often full, which are in large part In the area that illegally the XML is around Airport railing or BTS. 

That, and the particularly to the climate theft, the second one, and the fourth one is underserved demand. 

But the second one is inefficient. 

Use that. 

They have low uses And the last one, the midfield of the park and ride, Uh, the facility, Uh, use for non-transitive parking lot. 

Okay, that's all for my presentation. 

Thank you. 

Okay, Teresa. 

Yes, can you hear me? 

Hello, Oh, sorry, sorry. 

I cannot hear you Lisa. 

No, okay. 

Hello, You good. 

Okay, yes, um, let me share my Screen. 

Um, Yes, can you see it? 

Okay, let me put it. 

Okay, so I'm just gonna talk about some, I guess. 

Case studies, Um, to do with parking. 

So, the first two are more like about technology, um, ways that cities have used technology to try to, um, combat their parking issues, uh, and then the third one is just something that I thought was kind of interesting. 

Um, so our first, like, case study, Um, I was looking at Singapore, um, which uses the like a parking app, which Singapore is. 

This was implemented in I think 2014, 2014-ish. 

Um, and they're no longer the only ones to have this, but I think it's very interesting. 

Um, And it's they use a Singapore.sg app to allow drivers to pay for parking and extend their parking through a mobile application. 

Um, so you don't have to be in person like, you don't have to be at your car to pay, Um, or to extend your, Uh, parking, and it works. 

Um, But what? 

Um, But what it really I think does in terms of like things like cruising, and um congestion, Is it allows you to like compare your costs like, uh, easier in the area of, uh, on-street parking off street parking, so it can reduce. 

Um, That's sort of what people mentioned before about, um, the cost and cruising, And this also works on a pay per minute basis, so you don't have you pay only for the exact amount of parking that you are going to be using, Um, which helps. 

I think drivers Feel better about their barking, uh, Behavior, um, And the cost for. 

This was 1.7 billion USD over 4 years, and um, it was, even though this parking Dot SG is a I believe, like a private art, a private company. 

It was funded mostly by the government technology agency of Singapore, which is a public entity, and uh, was funded by like government money and was very little of was, it was through their, like, smart City initiative, and the smart Nation. 

Like, uh, Project um to this, the first one next. 

I, uh, there is the London virtual loading phase, which I think is very interesting because it focuses Less on Like Private, no private vehicles. 

But like, uh, individual people like going to places and more focuses on like businesses, commercial uses for driving, and the fact that, like the Big loading Can have on congestion And use of Street space. 

So, um, anyways, similar, but it allows you to, uh, Tip book, uh, like curb slots at specific times in specific places. 

Um, and it reduces the circling of the large like, um, loading vehicles like trucks or even just Vans, um, And reduces congestion and emissions. 

Um, and also it can allow for like incentivization of low emissions vehicles and pushing, as well as pushing Um vehicles to By raising prices at peak hours. 

It like pushes vehicles away from those hours and to try to mitigate congestion as well. 

So those are just two. 

I think interesting ways that, like, two cities, are using technology to, uh, Uh, deal with some of the parking issues, specifically along with street parking, but um, and like, congestion and emissions, um, the third case study is just something that I find quite interesting, which is illegal and informal parking. 

So I. 

I would say a lot of Indonesian cities, um, where you'll see, uh, like Kong Park, illegal parking attendance. 

Sometimes they kind of. 

Sometimes they kind of Working tangent with them. 

Um, and one of the big kind of issues cited in, uh, some of the issues I did both by the Padang city government, as well as people like, uh, in the users. 

Drivers is the loss of Revenue through parking through potential government revenue through parking because it's all, Um, under the table. 

And while there are some legal, uh, parking attendants. 

They are largely outnumbered by illegal of parking attendance, who some it's kind of complex, but some, uh, take all the earnings home for themselves, uh, and some work with, like. 



Yesterday 1:25 PM
They are largely outnumbered by illegal and parking attendants who some it's kind of complex, but some, uh, take all the earnings home for themselves, uh, and some work with, like. 



Yesterday 1:25 PM
Either like, Like, on contacts, kind of to where, like, uh, who either are like the land owner of the like, small lands, or they just control the area more like Elicit business, sort of style. 

Um, But it means a big loss for the potential government revenue, especially because. 



Yesterday 1:31 PM
Cuz, I mean, I, you know, I'm sorry, No. 

But, what's good for you Soon? 

Okay, yeah, so soon. 

School and after their work. 

Okay, so according to the time. 

Okay, so this is more. 

It's very great. 

Their income income? 

Interesting. 

So, we have to separate, um, A criteria here. 

One is according to what, why? 

Time, actually, why, why? 

Those times, yeah, why? 

Those times like, you know, like, you know, uh, what you said as Saturday, Sunday, or something after after school. 

So, if there's more, more demand less Supply, you can charge more. 

So, if there's more, more demand, less Supply, you can charge more Okay. 

But Maya, yours is about ability to pay Right, people who, who, who, who, who drive, Ferraris, should pay more than people who drive tuk-tuks. 

Well, that's that's one idea which is rally Implemented. 

Well, we'll come back to that, but that's an interesting idea. 

Who else would want to propose a different Criterion for? 

I mean from your yeah, different, But? 

Dynamic price Well, so it's time space. 

You know, capacity is sort of like time and space, right? 

So So in certain time, the space may be more limited because you need the road for the cars to run Certain times. 

Why not? 

The road is empty. 

Would you agree with that? 

Okay, cuz that's. 

That's the idea, right? 

Like, only too long road during the day. 

You've seen it right or even piatai Road During the day? 

It looks pretty empty. 

What's what's the argument there? 

What's what's the argument there? 

What's what's the rationale there For allowing People to park on the Main Street, but only during the limited time? 

This is economics 101. 

Anybody want to take it from economics point of view? 

Why, why? 

Why is it okay for some people? 

Why is it okay to allow people to park On the street During the day? 

That is not rush hours. 

And then, after The school time, you ban people, or you charge people more for parking there. 

Buster. 

What's the thinking behind it? 

No, it's. 

It's not. 

Um, yes, but In economics is basically just is like, Attract business. 

And what's the marginal cost? 

And what's the marginal cost? 

What is the cost of? 

What are the costs of allowing cars to park? 

There, But fucking is not past moving, So left lane for Other cars to move. 

Okay, what else? 

What are the costs? 

Not so much Is the land that will make the road for the parking well, but the land has already made It's already made, not for the parking right that it's already there. 

It's either for the cars to run or the cars to park the land is it's sunk. 

It sunk cost, Right? 

Because that's, you know, And I use a lot of Economics here. 

The fixed cost is already paid. 

The fixed cost is already paid. 

You already have it. 

You already have Pia Thai Road, four lanes, and four lanes right now. 

You have to manage The space. 

What would you do, right? 

And I said, well, it's empty. 

Let people Park. 

It would be faster for me to park there and walk to the department. 

It would be good for the coffee shops there because somebody parked there. 

It's better, Who's losing right? 

So, in economics, um, you might have heard it, but You know, there is this concept called Pareto efficiency, Right? 

Pareto Efficiency is one in which You gain benefit Without having another person or somebody else losing The utility, Right? 

Somebody is gaining The shops, The car drivers right, Pareto p-a-r-e-t-o, Pareto Pareto efficiency. 

So, so The roads are there, Right? 

So, it's, like, well, nobody's really losing. 

That's fine, but generally, if it's empty. 

That's fine, but generally, if it's empty, The car should be able to move anyway, Right? 

So, one argument, I'm I'm not, you know. 

I'm playing Devil's Advocacy here Because you, it seems like you all are, like, oh yeah, let's, you know, let's, um, Uh, you know, let's charge, uh, you know, the cars for parking there, but my argument back to you is that recording stop, but if the road. 

Is that empty? 

Why not allowing it Right? 

So there are two stage of decision making there. 

One. 

How much should you charge? 

So we have to start from the basic decision Whether or not to allow When argument. 

So, we have to start from the basic decision Whether or not to allow One argument will say, yeah, let's let them park The road Empty, All right. 

So, what would you? 

What would be? 

What would be your counter argument? 

I argue that let them part. 

The boat is empty. 

What's your argument now? 

Do you agree with me or you still insist that we should not allow people to park? 

Okay, why? 

Police would not let them pass. 

Well, I mean, but your argument is contextual though, right? 

So, it means that some roads, The rush hours, are long. 

We should not allow people to park there, but other roads that the rush hours are shorter. 

You should allow them right, that's sort of the the logic. 

Yeah, so you still allow if the context is right. 

Ah, there you go. 

Yeah, so, so this is dynamic. 

Thinking there, right? 

You're not thinking about, like whether or not to allow there, but by allowing people to do so, Then that creates some. 

You know, there is a concept of institutionalization, but it's not just about organization. 

It's about you, built in the habit, and people will feel like, Why not? 

Why not? 

So, okay, that's one argument against, allowing on-street parking. 

Who else would argue Otherwise? 

The reality is that we do allow street parking Wherever possible, Right? 

So, it's sort of in between. 

So, it's mostly like what you know? 

You answer that Certain roads are okay, other roads, not okay. 

You still need to charge them All right. 

So, the question is how to charge What's behind Dynamic pricing? 

What's what is dynamic pricing? 

Excuse me. 

Charge higher when the capacity is limited or charge higher. 

When the demand is high, So these are not exactly the same thing, right? 

Capacity is limited is when you limit the space, but the capacity May remain the same, but the demand is high, Right. 

San Francisco and other places do that. 

What's not good about Dynamic pricing, but apparently, if you do Dynamic pricing, your Dynamic charging It feels like it's more efficient. 

But what's not good about Dynamic pricing? 

What could it be, You know? 

Like in San Francisco, there is an app And it goes To the extent that you can bid For a parking Space. 

How much money are you willing to pay for that spot? 

That's, that's sort of the super Extreme of dynamic pricing, right? 

One one option of dynamic pricing is just to fix the rate During the day. 

It's 10 bar after four o'clock. 

It's 20, Six o'clock. 

It's 30 bucks, something like that, And the app should be able to adjust it Right. 

And we do it all the time for events. 

If you are going to a concert, You probably have to pay more for parking right demand Supply. 

Is there something? 

Is there something Related to morality or something? 

I don't know After that, while ambulance should be free. 

So I, I mean, Well, no, but but, um, But that's that's not about charging, though. 

That's, that's the question before that. 

Whether or not you would allow? 

Right, but are you saying that by allowing them to park and you charge them And Ambulance cannot, But it's only one lane, though? 

Shouldn't the ambulances be still be able to go through What other cars allow it? 

Follow. 

We can come back to that, but my question is less about that. 

My question is more about Whether or not It's okay To charge people according to their Willingness to pay. 

So, that's my question about Dynamic pricing. 

And They can overcharge like Taylor Swift's It's way too expensive. 

But, what's what's more morally wrong about it? 

I mean is Taylor Swift's concert basic right to humanity By some people. 

Swifties would probably agree. 

That's the case. 

So why, why is it a morality issue? 

So why, why is it a morality issue Concert? 

What is the advantage? 

It's Market Well for the ambulance, though it would be, you know, our argument is that, well, if you know a car is parked there, and an ambulance cannot park, And the person says, I'm driving Ferrari. 

Yeah, okay, that would be a morality issue. 

Yeah, okay, that would be a morality issue. 

But then, that's why you need a space for, you know, emergency purposes, right. 

For ambulances for, Um, you know, disabled people, But but, but I'm asking about, like charging people with Dynamic Fairs, Dynamic charges, what's wrong about it, Or there's nothing wrong about it at all. 

No, we good. 

I want to ask you Ashley Maya because you raised the ability to pay issue When we do charge people for their willingness to pay. 

What could happen to parking spots, And by the way, easy Isa? 

You can join as well, and now you're a little sick. 

What could happen? 

Did I say something? 

Sure, Um, I mean, if you always if parking becomes something very, very like, expensive, then it can be like another. 

It can, like, exacerbate economic inequalities, maybe, or like, become a symbol of wealth As well, exactly. 

So, if you're interested, I mean, he didn't say this. 

But um, There is a great book by Michael sandal. 

He's a Harvard philosophy Professor And his one of his really good books is called. 

What money cannot buy And why it's wrong To put a price on certain things like human organ? 

For example, right? 

That's one extreme. 

But, but parking, though, The interesting Argument I'm not saying is right or wrong. 

It's, you know, morality is dependent on your view. 

Is that if you let the market dictate the space or property of parking, Then some rich people will always get whatever spots they can afford Right. 

So, like, if you were, if you let people bid for a spot Right in front of Something, You know, I don't know what is the most valuable spot in Bangkok in terms of parking, but imagine somebody wants to go to? 

I don't know. 



Yesterday 1:48 PM
I don't know. 



Yesterday 1:48 PM
Sir, well, not a concern to go to. 

A I don't know a park. 

There's only one spot right in front of the, Um, The entrance. 

If you let that be a market, Then whoever Gets to pay the most will be able to get that spot All the time. 

The person is Rich enough to actually keep bidding. 

I want that spot. 

Just keep bidding, Right? 

So it's not happening, but it's actually one of the, Um, debate about Charging something like that Dynamically, but at the same time to the extreme of bidding, And it did happen in San Francisco that some, you know, Venture capitalists having a lot of money, Getting the spots The best spot. 

I mean, from the point of view of the city, it's great. 

They get a lot more money from parking, Right? 

Is that fair? 

Is that fair? 

What do you think? 

Would you allowed now that you know I've? 

I've told you the counter argument against bidding, Right? 

We're not talking about Dynamic pricing. 

We're talking about. 

Generally, economists say Dynamic pricing is fine, As if you can reduce the transaction cost, Right? 

Cuz, it's very difficult to monitor Right before the time of digital platforms and apps. 

And, you know, and and sensor Technologies, it's too difficult to to to, um, to do Dynamic pricing, Right? 

Because you don't know. 

But now that you know we have all the information, the data and stuff like that Dynamic pricing is much easier through the app And the government. 

Um, you know, um, I, I know, that in a lot of places, They have raised so much more revenue from doing Parking by the app and also Dynamic pricing through the apps. 

So that's something that we could do in Bangkok as well. 

I'm trying to propose that, but you know, but my question is More about The bidding part Maya. 

Of those that So, But but your argument. 

So, you're basically against bidding. 

Rich people will always get the best parking spots. 

Rich people will always get the best parking spots, Right? 

But your argument, though I don't know how detailed it is or sophisticated, it is. 

But you're basically saying that it should be done according to the ability to pay Right, but obviously, um, you know, we already have a certain criteria for allocating parking space, like for handicapped people for the elderly, you know, for trucks. 

For other things, that sort of, serve the public purposes, and also look into, you know, the the more disadvantaged or vulnerable people in society. 

We allocated those spaces for them, Right, and, and in some places, you know, those are very strict. 

Strictly enforced Right in Thailand. 

Not so much, but people are respecting, you know, the spaces for the handicap tomorrow. 

Now, like, oftentimes, you know, on social media, you see people taking photos of like, you know, super cars, you call them, uh, parking on like handicap spaces and people are like angry about it. 

I mean, it's good, right? 

So, it means that We want to enforce that Norm that, hey, those are Prevalent space, and the privilege is given to, you know, the elderly, or um, the the disadvantaged people, which is acceptable, But practically, though, how would? 

How do we I'll locate parking space according to ability to pay? 

Let's, let's try to Operationalize. 

How would you do it? 

How would you do it? 

Yeah, So it's like you, you know, like, you have to have the handicapped, uh, card, right? 

When you want to park in the handicap slot, you put the card in front that the drivers or there's handicapped person In the car. 

So, you're saying, like, you know, you need to prove that you're poor? 

Yeah, You when you register Well, but but imagine, like, there is one spot Right. 

Who? 

Who should get that spot first, If if indeed, it's the ability to pay? 

Principal As the poorer people who would get it first, right? 

If I, if I read it correctly? 

I'll go first Bar related. 

Ah, so you're basically saying that the rich people should pay more for that parking space, Right? 

But, but I'm talking about the allocation first. 

Who would get that space first, right? 

Cuz. 

Before we charged person, we have to allocate that to the person. 

How are you going to allocate that right now? 

How do you do it? 

How do we do it Right now anywhere? 

How do we do it? 

First come, first serve, right. 

Who gets that first? 

You got it, Right? 

It's first come, first serve, And some places, then you you add the charging, right? 

If you get to that spot, this is how much you you need to pay? 

Sometimes, you're limited to 20 minutes or 10 minutes, 20 minutes, half an hour, two hours. 

One day, It varies, right? 

Yeah, so Well, we'll come back to that thinking a little bit. 

But How, how, how do you want to change The system because right now, it's first come first? 

Serve. 

Dynamic pricing adds another layer to it. 

You may get that first, but somebody else got there with more money, Right? 

First come, first, though, is physical. 

First, come first, serve right. 

You have to be there physically, except sometimes people put like something you know to block, right? 

That's another story in itself, right? 

But physically, you need to book it With your car. 

Okay, but with the digital platform now within apps, you don't actually have to be there. 

You can book it before is first booked digitally. 

First served, Right? 

So you, you have that now, right? 

Then the next one is Pricing. 

You may want to get it first, but somebody is willing to pay more for it. 

So, that's another level of dynamic pricing, Right? 

And and the technology is Shifting towards that. 

And, and the technology is Shifting towards that All right, yes or no? 

Let's do it. 

No, no, yes, all right. 

So, yes, why? 

Yeah, but you need to explain why, yes. 

Yeah, but you need to explain why. 

Yes, If the money goes to government. 

Yes, because the money will be purpose for other things, and that will be a big other people. 

Well, I mean, we talk about public space, right? 

We don't talk about private garages because private garages is up to them. 

If they charge that expensive, It doesn't matter, right? 

It's private Market, but your point is well taken, So you think, like, let's charge the rich, and then we use that money for other things. 

Yeah, okay, so that's You don't have to remember this. 

It's called Calder Hicks. 

It's a theory about. 

It's not just Pareto efficiency, But it's about how people can be compensated for the loss of efficiency, So that's a little theoretical. 

But okay, so that's your argument. 

Others. 

Why? 

Why not Like people, that's going to be always. 

What does it mean? 

Okay, so you argue for, like, you know, um, there's that sense of sleep slippery slope argument. 

There's always going to be somebody else, you know, going to benefit from it. 

And we're not talking about the trust and government, right? 

Because I mean, you know, that's a big, big assumption, right? 

Assuming the government is good, the government will use that money for parks for pedestrianization. 

But that's a big if in itself in in a lot of places. 

All right, but um. 

In terms of space and time? 

In terms of space and time, Right? 

And, and we're talking about the principles, um, or the, you know, the criteria that we will use to allocate The Limited space? 

That, that's what we do now, right? 

It's not insurance, though, because we're not protecting the expensive car more. 

It's not insurance, though, because we're not protecting the expensive car more, Right? 

He's not like, oh, he's expensive car. 

I need to do something more. 

It's not like that, right? 

We're charging them more just because they're richer. 

Yes, Maya. 

But we have. 

We have the income tax already. 

No? 

Well, well, let's that's another interesting layer, but your points are, yeah, you're saying, because they're rich, they should pay more. 

Right? 

But, but the kind of hey kind of paying more taxes already right Through their income taxes. 

But it's the same thing. 

It's the same thing, right? 

It's the same thing, right? 

You charge them more. 

You helpful. 

People pay less because the rich people still pay more. 

So, you're basically saying, like, you know, we charge, you know, 20 bucks for the rich. 

Again, I'm I want to push this. 

Again, I'm I want to push this. 

Why are we charging the rich more even though the car? 

Okay, let's take this. 

Somebody is driving a Tesla And somebody Driving in all 30 years old Tuktoks Exhaustion. 

The the exhaust is turbo from the tuk-tuks. 

The tuktos are polluting the city more Tesla supposedly better slightly Occupy the same space, So the Tesla people can come and say, why am I paying more? 

I'm helping the economy. 

I'm helping the environment. 

Just because the tutu owner or renter is poorer, he can get charged less. 

It's lower income. 

Yeah, right. 

Some regulations About new brand new, right? 

Some regulations About new brand new village right, and for example, older people. 

Yeah, they just, you know, that their parents, because right about carpets, yeah? 

So, so it's, it's that it's the same logic, right? 

It's usually it's, you know, it comes in a concept of you. 

You will go back to this, but it's the issue of just transition, Right, where we're translating, you know, what we are transitioning to more climate friendly, you know, low carbon society and all that, but a lot of people cannot get to those, Right? 

But, but if I may interpret what you say So, you're you're, you feel bad for those people. 

That's why you charge the rich more. 

Why don't? 

Is that acceptable? 

Is that acceptable? 

No, you're socialist, good, Good. 

A few weeks ago, Accuse that police people that have available right. 

So, the battery has quality itself in the location, okay, and you have to be just because you have a more available, but their time are more available. 

I'm shifting all the time, so you know my role is to debate okay, right? 

It's their ability to make money. 

Yeah, yeah. 

So, I mean, you know, they probably take the resource less than other people. 



Yesterday 2:05 PM
So, I mean, you know, they probably take the resource less than other people. 



Yesterday 2:05 PM
They have the brain. 

I mean, why? 

Why are you penalizing rich people there? 

Yeah, because you, you try to charge them more. 

I'm arguing for, like, let's just charge them the same. 

Could you buy it now? 

Are you convinced that we, You know, even though it's Ferrari or Tesla, we should charge them the same as, and all, all talk, or an old Honda, Which is the case at the moment, right? 

Whether you're not, you want to put parking into the market. 

Whether you're not, you want to put parking into the market, You know, we don't put handicap spaces into the market Because we don't think it's fair, Right? 

But, but coming back to you again, well, not you. 

But, you know, Donna Shoop? 

What, but we should charge people for the use of space it's more efficient. 

What, but we should charge people for the use of space it's more efficient. 

So now, now, where are you now? 

Are you at the extent of like we should charge, but we shouldn't charge people differently, Cuz I, at the beginning, you all said, yes, we should charge, Right? 

But I'm pushing you now, Right? 

Pushing you to the extent, like, how are we gonna charge? 

I guess we're settled that we should charge Right anything that's that's not For the handicapped people. 

How about the four? 

Let's do that. 

How about the poor? 

Yeah, because now we have a category of users, the handicapped ambulances. 

We don't charge them for parking because we feel like That's public goods. 

How about the poor? 

Maya says we should have a special rate for the poor, right? 

That's what you kind of saying. 

Yeah, the sure the point because you're poor. 

You shouldn't have a car. 

Is that what you're saying It? 

So, walk because you're poor. 

These people from. 

Wow, yeah, Why not? 

So, so you're looking at the cost of parking? 

You use the use the cost of parking As the basis for charging, Right? 

Not the how much value that parking contributes to that person, because these are two separate things right. 

The cost of provision is one thing the value to that person is another thing, Right? 

But Dynamic charging is not just the cost, but also sometimes it goes to the value To the person as well, Right? 

Because it. 

It means a lot to that person to park there. 

That's why he or she is willing To park and pay pay and park. 

Well, I mean negotiation is dynamic. 

Pricing bidding is negotiation. 

Negotiation is auction, right? 

Yeah, So let it be the rich problem, I mean, but is that really the case, though, because in a lot of societies now, Cars are not, but the cars are expensive, But we're not talking about, you know, super expensive. 

Like, you know, 1900s, Right? 

We're talking about. 

There are cheaper cars, So some poor people may need cars. 

Old cars, like what I am saying, Right? 

So, they need parking space, too. 

So the argument is that? 

Let it be the rich, uh, you know, the richest problem may not hold from the equity point of view because there are a lot of poor people who need the cars for for something Right. 

So, anyway, We don't need to get into, you know, the philosophical debate too much, but I want to point out that part. 

It's not as simple parking is not as simple, because at the end of the day, it's still Allocation of limited space in the city, Right? 

So, we do need to think seriously a little bit about it. 

Let's take another step. 

It's about, um, Um, How much time you should allow people to park And it's related to charging a little bit? 

Why do you think some places they allow only for 10 minutes, 30 minutes, 2 hours the whole day, and more? 

Why do we have that Sort of, you know, different steps Of prices? 

How busy the area is. 

What do you? 

What do you need in a busy area in terms of parking? 

What? 

Why don't you allow people to park a long time in those places, since a little busy area your vehicles, which means, right? 

But think about busy area, a little bit, and the behaviors of how people Park. 

Yeah, Like, Asian Square. 

If you charge a daily rate, What could happen instead of an hourly rate? 

So the social efficiency goes down. 

So the social efficiency goes down, Right? 

You want to charge people according to the marginal cost and benefit of the space Is as basic as that You don't want. 

Somebody Q is not coming to buy stuff To part that the whole day, Right? 

Think of like, you hear 7-Eleven 10 minutes. 

Think of like you hear 7-Eleven 10 minutes, Right? 

Cuz you want people to just come in. 

You don't want people. 

You know that people are not going to spend, you know, like two hours and 7-Eleven shopping? 

Well, some people do. 

I know Taurus sometimes. 

No, I've seen some, um, apparently 7-Eleven in Thailand or elsewhere, I don't know, Have become a tourist attraction. 

People share 7-Eleven stuff on, well, actually. 

From the Philippines, I saw A bunch of Filipinos sharing online about the little. 

I don't know what they're called, like, um, some sort of cosmetic stuff That they sell in 7-Eleven. 

It's like the little packets. 

I don't know what they are, But I've seen people sharing that on, like tiktoks or something. 

But the point is that In those places you want people to just come and go right, you want to turn over to be quick. 

You don't want people to stay forever, But at the same time in certain places, You want the residents to have parking. 

That's why, in certain places, not in Thailand? 

I'm sure. 

They have residential permit Resident. 

They have residential permit Residential parking permit, Cuz. 

In places that have, like, you know, shop houses, townhouses. 

They don't have spaces for parking inside the building. 

All right, so they do rely on on-street parking, But that's the. 

That's the trade-off between allowing people to park there in a short time, and you get money And people who live there who need The parking space on the street? 

So, one way to do it is, is do, um, residential parking permit. 

You need to prove that you live there in that neighborhood so that you can get the permit If you don't live in that neighborhood and you park. 

There, you'll be, you know, either getting some tickets or some fine or, um, you know, you'll be charged more, Right? 

Cuz, that's sort of the way that you differentiate different users. 

Yes, We don't have that. 

Yeah, that's why you see a lot of residents, um, Like, you know, anywhere you go to a Bangkok neighborhood. 

What do you see people put like a chair there a tire there, you know, like, it's so interesting, I, if if you want to do, Um, a fun documentary or some photo collage Items that use as a parking reservation in Bangkok. 

You see some weird stuff. 

I've once seen, well, maybe you can share. 

I've once seen it all freaking doll like an old, like teddy bear, but torn apart doll, I, I think I sort of have it, like, Who the hell hold you there, but hey, it's freaking. 

It's pretty freaking Sorry. 

Yes, It's not legal. 

It's not legal Well. 

Who, what, who would enforce They have to deal with? 

Isa mentioned illegal, you know? 

From a formal, informal, illegal part, right? 

That's the very issue. 

It may be illegal, But let's take the perspective of the resonance though. 

But is it fair to be legal? 

Cuz this class is not. 

We're not talking about, like, you know, systems governance. 

We do talk about lived experience as well. 

Imagine you, The owner of the shop house, And you own the car And somebody else is parking right in front of your Shop house, claiming that that parking space is public. 

What would you do? 

You're not happy, right? 

I mean, be real. 

I, I wouldn't be happy, even though I would say As a planning Professor, I would say, yeah. 

Is that right? 

It's public space, But? 

It's public space, But I want to park right in front of my house. 

Okay, so you kind of have to understand a little bit, right? 

Why certain things happen, even though Definitely that behavior is illegal, Illegal? 

But we're talking about governance here. 

We're not talking about regulation here, right? 

Obviously, it's not legal at all, And I hate it Right, especially when I'm The Outsider. 

I want to park there. 

That's the restaurant where I want to go to, and Like, who are you? 

You're just the resident, it's public space. 

That's why residential permit. 

I've said this for 15 years, 20 years already. 

I've said this for 15 years, 20 years already. 

It's a long story. 

There's a, what's stopping it? 

What's stopping Thailand to become better or anything in the world? 

Right. 

That's, that's your work. 

That's your next essay. 

Or maybe that's part of your essay, Right? 

This is diagnosed. 

It's a problem. 

Why can't we do better? 

All right, but we'll, we'll, we'll. 

We'll tease out the reasons. 

Think first thing first. 

How would you resolve it? 

This issue of, You know, having residents At the same time they need parking That is also public space In other places? 

Residential Park residential parking permit? 

That's the way, Right? 

It's not like, Because the argument is that the resonance pay Property taxes. 

That's the. 

That's the sort of um Public Finance argument Because they pay taxes. 

They should be able to get priority Over other people who just come to visit. 

Fair enough, Fair enough. 

But, what else would be the argument For, you know, favoring the residents? 

Why would you favor the residence versus anybody? 

And so, your your argument is interesting. 

Uh, it's a sense of ownership, Right? 

If they think they own it, even though legally they're not the owner, they will take care of the space. 

Better, like why people don't throw trash in most people don't throw trash in front of their house? 

You know, I walk on the on the street right now, which is a little dirty, Sadly. 

Um, Because there's one empty lot Ready to become the next commit Marriott Gentrification. 



Yesterday 2:21 PM
Marriott Gentrification, Uh? 



Yesterday 2:21 PM
But because the lot is empty, nobody is using that lot. 

So people throw away stuff, you know, smokers and trash and stuff. 

One, one time I actually were, you know, a pair of gloves and I picked the trash myself, even though it's not in front of my house, but it's on my way to work and to the BTS. 

But at the corner where there is a wind, a motorcycle taxi. 

It's clean. 

It's because the motorcycle taxi drivers clean that space Both the sidewalk and the space to park their motorcycle. 

So, your argument is valid in that sense, You know, it's not theirs legally. 

They feel like they use it. 

They should take care of it. 

So, your argument, the extension of your argument is that If the residents can park there, they will take care of the space more Okay, Ownership argument. 

What else, why would we prioritize the resonance because they pay taxes because they Were take care of the space more? 

Any arguments? 

All right, What's the argument against prioritizing the residents? 

That's even harder. 

I told you before, well, maybe not this class. 

I told you before, well, maybe not this class. 

The whole purpose of that seminar class, especially with me, is that you get more headaches out of this class. 

If you don't have any headaches out of this class that doesn't serve my purpose. 

Yeah, I want you to be enlightened. 

I want you to be even more curious And troubled. 

What would be against The argument against allowing the residents to have the access? 

Think of Paris And who can get those townhouses? 

Our apartments in central Paris. 

They are the Richer people, Right? 

It's benefiting the people who already rich By being able to buy or rent the properties at valuable spots. 

So, by prioritizing them, You're even making them even more, You know, Beneficial, Right? 

So that's the argument they're already rich. 

Come on! 

If they can buy, you know, townhouses in central New York If they can get an apartment or an apartment, like if they can stay next to Chula. 

They're not poor, And by favoring them, You're even enforcing the idea that rich people could get away with, honestly, Good. 

So, that's the argument. 

I don't know which one you will buy, but that's one argument against him, Right? 

One argument I can sell, So I'm not gonna let you vote, but I want to, you know, Tell you like. 

These could be the arguments for and against even something as like, oh, isn't that fair? 

They paid property tax. 

They should get the priority, But people argue otherwise. 

Commuters need that too, Right? 

And they're already rich. 

Why don't we charge them? 

So, that's, that's the sort of the flip side of it now, Um, Obviously. 

Um, You know, you want to be able to maximize the limited resources In the city? 

Coming to your point a little bit, though, Should we have, Um? 

Parking regulations by Zone By Zone and and how would you do it? 

If we prioritize to resident residents hockey and it's all about The offic. 

If we prioritize to resident residents hockey and it's all about The the officer. 

Yeah, So, and also you can give Some discount for you. 

Supposed officer is working here Taurus, and as a person who are spend his for shopping, it's different. 

Okay, so it's, it's more like, economic contribution, reason. 

Which zone do you want to increase or reduce parking availability? 

Which zone do you want to increase or reduce parking availability? 

13. 

Ocean Bridge. 

So, you're talking about Park and Ride facilities, But that means you are increasing Parking spaces around transit stations. 

Well, you're interested in Tod. 

Well, you're interested in Tod Or a lot of people are translated in Tuity. 

How would you? 

How would you? 

How would you plan parking around Tod Concepts? 

Would you increase? 

Would you? 

Would you reduce parking Or is more subtle than that? 

How would you do it? 

Anybody? 

Okay, you reduce parking Overall or just in some places Around Tod's. 

Yeah. 

So, you want to go as far as discouraging people to drive to the station. 

This is courage, right, discouraging, right? 

Yeah, because because you want to reduce the parking around tood's stations or stations with dods, That's sort of slightly different from, you know, Maya's argument for, Um, not exactly, totally opposite. 

But in your case, you're saying that in some places, there should be some sort of parking park and ride facilities, right? 

And there are park and ride facilities, you know, in various places as well, mostly Suburban areas. 

Yeah, but you're saying that, you know, In general, we should reduce the number of parking Any any take? 

Until deal about Disneyland. 

I think they should allow Google okay. 

It's fine, right? 

Not everyone, But I mean to reduce doesn't mean to make it zero. 

So, I guess you know we don't know where where it is at the moment, but you're saying that there are people who still need a lot of people or student To drive? 

Instructions like this people equal to entertains for their family or them, so they, I think, the drive to try out is the best, but that's on TOD, right? 

So, yeah, yes, it? 

They have there. 

And then they use. 

Oh yeah, but it's up Tod, though. 

It's the development that just happens to be next to the T, Right? 

But it's not Tod cell, right? 

Yeah, of course. 

People, you know, people go there. 

It's department store, right? 

But it's not t or DS Transit oriented development. 

It's more like the development happens to be there near the te, Right? 

That's why people go there, But but, but there is an interesting point about that. 

I want to think a little bit more, Um. 

Um, the cost of providing public, you know, feeder services versus the cost of allowing people to drive and yet provide In a park and ride facilities. 

I don't know. 

It's kind of interesting to to sort of calculate a little bit because some could argue that it's cheaper to just provide parking. 

I have to think about that, all right. 

So, um, oh, it's 2:30. 

Let's take a quick break. 

I haven't had lunch. 

Okay? 

Okay. 

And we're still on parking today. 

All right. 

So, let's shift to gear And talk about. 

Off street parking. 

Okay, so off street parking. 

When we say off Street there, At least two kinds, well, generally. 

There are two kinds Wonders is off Street, but not in the building. 

As you can see, You know some parking And ones that are in the building? 

Where do you see them? 

When do you think, Um, Well, let let's? 

Let's go back to the basic question. 

Where do you see them The parking lot as well as parking buildings? 

Why do we have parking buildings Safer? 

I'll save the space. 

Okay, So land must be expensive then What they call capitalization Capitalization. 

When it comes to Land, Development is when you have a certain you know, plot, And you want to build as high as possible. 

That's what we call a capitalization. 

I don't know if it's true, but I've heard that Hong Kong As the most expensive parking Space, And there's actually some, like real estate agent dedicated to parking lot, You know, raise the agent. 

Usually, you ask them for An apartment. 

No condo, right? 

But there are specialized real estate agents for parking in Hong Kong, You know. 

I, I wondered, this a long time ago, and every time I went to Hong Kong, I was always, always wondering why people drive only expensive cars you don't see. 

Like, you know, cheap cars in Hong Kong generally. 

It's because of parking. 

It's because of parking. 

Now, how is parking Related to, Um, Travel demand? 

And how would, how would you relate parking with other concept of public? 

You know, Um, Uh, public transportation And others. 

How would you relate the two concepts? 

If you want to Promote Obviously, um, you know, promote public transportation. 

On the one hand, you improve the quality And the accessibility of public transportation, right? 

But what else do you need to do at the same time? 

Freeze rice Now. 

That's the outcome. 

That's the outcome. 

But one measure Is to improve the quality of public public transportation, Right, Cleaner, safer, more frequent, More accessible. 

But what else do you need to do On the other side? 

Why don't people use public transportation? 

Other than it's not safe, it's not clean. 

It's not there. 

It's cheap. 

You don't have to pay to the park pay, and you don't. 

You don't have to retain your cars right, right? 

But, but my, my question is the measure. 

How would you Promote To use or not promote increase the use of public transportation, Right? 

So, we already listed the the positive part, right, making it safer, cleaner, more accessible, cheaper, Right? 

But what you need to do on the other side as well. 

That's what Singapore is doing. 

London is doing in Tokyo is doing, Uh, that's a correct answer. 

But a higher level is to increase the cost of driving Right. 

You make this side better cheaper, but you have to increase the other side as well, Because if this side of driving right, as you said, is, is still cheap, You can't beat a car, Right? 

If if cars is cheap, If gasoline is inexpensive, I mean, like, think about, you know, Saudi Arabia, but I mean, obviously, the building Subways and stuff. 

But even in Malaysia, You know, um, Um, you know? 

It's a oil producing country, So it's hard To promote public transportation without reduce. 

I mean making driving more expensive Because gasoline is heavily subsidized And car. 

I mean, You know, at some point, They were still. 

I guess they're still doing it, but not successfully. 

The National Car, uh Petronas, oh, not Patronus. 

So where is Japanese, um? 

So, where is Japanese, um, Proton? 

Yeah, proton proton was, Or maybe still, I don't know. 

I don't see it anymore, but proton was a national car, National brand of Malaysia's Government, so they promoted the use of a proton for a long time Subsidize, subsidizing the manufacturing of the cars, subsidizing, you know, the, the gasoline, My proton Anyway, Um. 

So, one part. 

So, how would you make cars expensive? 



Yesterday 2:54 PM
So, how would you make cars expensive? 



Yesterday 2:54 PM
How you, how not cards? 

How would you make driving expensive? 

Uh. 

Okay, tolls. 

So, tax, yeah, your tax, the cars more, especially if they are imported. 

Okay. 

Gasoline tax? 

Yeah, Okay, It's getting expensive there, and I'm still driving. 

I can Sorry, Expensive parking spaces. 

How would you do it, But did you say restriction of parking space, but he's a little bit more Obedient? 

So make it make it expensive. 

Yeah, okay. 

So, maybe Restriction right of car, I guess driving, and basically the flip side of pedestrianization, basically. 

And I guess active Mobility, not motorized activity. 

Well, So how would so the the topic today is is mostly, uh, parking? 

So, we leave other measures for later, but when it comes to parking, So You said Restriction of parking It all out part, but they have to part them. 

What would you do in some places that would have to park, but where? 

Where would you do like? 

No parking here, Which zone, which location which space No parking? 

Well, are you talking about parking, or you're talking about through traffic because they're different things like Science Square, even though we have that pedestrianized, Uh, area, now quite nicely. 

It was probably more than 20 years talking about it. 

Finally, it's done, Um, You know? 

It may seem very little coming from China or Paris that you have a lot of pedestrianized streets, but this is a this is a big deal, like, oh my God, The first time ever, you can, like, take the space away from cars right in the middle of the city, right? 

So, it is a big deal. 

I like it, I mean, I don't know why people walk there. 

I feel like, why are people here. 

Why are tourists here? 

Can you tell me why? 

Why are they there, but I'm like, oh, it's kind of nice. 

I guess you know, but I feel like people here, but maybe it doesn't matter. 

It's like a part, right? 

So, But it doesn't mean that, um, there's less parking at Sam's Square. 

They actually increase parking in the buildings around Science Square. 

So, My point to you is that, Can you clarify a little bit? 

Where would you restrict parking? 

Where would you not allow parking? 

But what did I say? 

But what did I say? 

Yeah, go ahead. 

Sorry. 

Primary school, for for what? 

Reason. 

It's pollution. 

It's safety, right? 

But it's not for efficiency reason, Right? 

So we need to when, when we do any measure, you always have to think about the reasons why you do it, right? 

We, we have to analyze it. 

We don't just say, because it feels good, no right. 

So, safety and pollution. 

Okay, that's why you know, in a lot of places, they don't allow you to park while running your car, right? 

Because the pollution is so great. 

Okay, but what else other than squares? 

Well, obviously, busy streets, But that's more for the traffic flow, Right? 

You don't want. 

You don't want parking to restrict the flow of the traffic. 

What else, though, Where would you? 

Ah, security. 

Okay, University. 

So a lot of Secrets here, but probably not of National Security personal secrets. 

Okay? 

Okay, So it's mostly safety through traffic. 

Any any efficiency reason anywhere that? 

Would you would not? 

But other than the the through through traffic, I know something. 

Well, I, I don't know. 

It could be safety or security, maybe? 

It's hard to regulates the problem. 

Okay, so I guess it's efficiency. 

It's Control demand Through limited Supply. 

If people know that they cannot drive or they cannot park, they will not drive. 

We do have to separate the two things Driving, And well, let's start from owning a car. 

Driving a car and parking car. 

They are three different things. 

It may seem like they're all related, but the measures could Target different part of that process, Right? 

Owning a car like the Japanese, they own a lot of cars, but it's not like they drive the cars every day, Right? 

During the week to actually use public transportation Like weekends, They drive a lock. 

You may drive and then you park. 

You may drive, and then you park At the space where you, You, you have the um, the right. 

You don't have to pay Like a lot. 

No, not all most Chula professors and staff can drive here without having to pay to park. 

It's free parking, which I keep saying, no, but they hate me. 

But that's okay. 

Like, I remember I interviewed for For a Fulbright scholarship Many decades ago As a Tula faculty. 

And while they know that I'm ref is from Chula, so they asked me, like, oh, what would you do with, uh, Chula? 

And I said, I'm gonna start charging the faculty for parking here. 

And little did I know that, you know, I? 

One of the committee members was actually a Chula Professor That was a funny story. 

People think of parking is right, but not privileged Or not. 

Even commodity Like, and this is the interesting part. 

I talked to another law professor, actually, not long. 

A political science professor, Who who actually is very Uh, you know, it's a strong advocate of Human Right, political right, and stuff like that, And when, and my, my friend, you know, a colleague subscript at the transportation Institute, We propose that 50 members at Chula Chula pay for parking. 

Sure, it's not happy. 

She actually thinks that, Um, That parking is right. 

So, it's a right or maybe to me, it's it's beyond privilege, but So. 

So, my point is that, where would you restrict That, right? 

And we're not. 

I'm not forgetting your argument for charging yet, because we're just doing like, No parking here. 

Where would you do it? 

Where else would you do it? 

Oh yeah, okay, But that's very specific spot, right? 

Spot area, okay? 

Do you want to restrict the zone Like you cannot park in this Zone at all? 

Why would somebody want to do that? 

Well, obviously, somebody's thinking of giving that, but which zone, Which is, which zone do you want to restrict parking? 

Cuz, I'm we're not talking about the spot, right? 

Because Patty, you're referring to the spot where you know public buses, and you know, shuttle buses could could stop. 

Those are spots, but I'm talking about zones. 

Areas Which zones are areas? 

Would you consider Banning parking? 

Yeah, but why, though? 

It's very crowded. 

Yeah, But wait, are you talking about only um On street parking, but I'm referring to parking in general because Chinatown do have parking garages, you know, uh, in some associations, you can sneak in and park? 

Sorry, yes. 

Okay, what do you think as Zone? 

Okay, what do you think as Zone, Uh, no parking Zone Would be beneficial? 

Well, an active Mobility Active Mobility. 

So, um, Well, you like, Disneyland? 

There's no parking in Disneyland inside Disneyland. 

You have to park outside. 

So, what they do is that you kind of have to park to the entrances and inside is mostly Active Mobility. 

Okay. 

While you restrict the flow too. 

Yeah, So I'm referring more like about parking. 

Would you do it Or you still think that you still need some parking? 

I mean, obviously, I'm not saying like, there shouldn't be any parking for ambulances, the handicapped those are always accepted anyway. 

So, you need those places, but those are not considered parking. 

So, you need those places, but those are not considered parking Well. 

In some places. 

Um, I forgot the names, Um, some tourist spots like, historic, Um, you know, uh, science. 

They don't allow, not just driving through, but parking as well. 

They come sort of together, right? 

You don't allow you, you're not allow. 

Well, it's illogical to think that way, because if you don't drive, then there's no parking. 

So, if you restrict parking, there's almost no driving. 

If there's no through Trump through ways, All right, so you can control the access to that area And then have people only walk Or some sort of shuttle or some some bicycles, Right? 

So, it's there are a few places, um, you know, like Old Towns, Um, Um, I, I don't know if it's all parking, but I know that in some areas in Switzerland, Um, they have that sort of like historic areas where they don't allow parking. 

Yeah, they're allowed driving in Draw people. 

People are off, go back, but they don't allow parking All right. 

So, so that the the whole point of my argument here is that you can, uh, decouple Only a car driving a car and parking a car, and you can make the combinations according to the context that you like, Okay, Obviously. 

You need other modes of transportation to make people, Um, you know, Uh, able to walk around, But you don't have to think everything is the same. 

One thing That Tokyo Ashley Japan About parking Was that part of your presentation or somebody else's, or I just imagined it. 

Um, do you know what they do with parking and owning driving, parking, And how they they restrict The use of cars in Japan? 

Oh, you live there, but were you driving so you don't know? 

I wasn't driving either, but it's my job, so I was supposed to know. 

Yes, you need a certificate of parking Before you can finalize your purchase of a car. 

So, What is good about that? 

Yeah, so that's that's really interesting right now. 

Yeah, so that's that's really interesting right now. 

Why would this not be implemented in other places? 

I mean, obviously, you, you seemed interested because you're, oh, wow, okay, that's kind of cool. 

Why don't, why? 

Why do you think we don't have that regulation in Bangkok or in Thailand or in, I don't know. 

In China. 

Did you have that You need a parking space in some cities, right? 

Yeah, You need to show that you have a parking spot before, But why other places don't do that? 

I mean, you own a car, right? 

What would, what would you say as a car owner, not a city or Urban strategist? 

We have plenty of pray. 

Yeah, Because a lot of space there. 

Why do we need a permit? 

Okay, Even though we don't right, we don't have enough space, but we think we have a lot of spares In Manila. 

Are you actually from Manila? 



Yesterday 3:11 PM
Are you actually from Manila? 



Yesterday 3:11 PM
So, no, no, I mean, like, Because Manila is big and people. 

When people say Manila, like, you know, people could be coming from, You know, contemporary, and they call them those Bangkok person. 

Yeah, okay, yeah. 

So, why, why, what would happen if somebody like you would go home Promoting active Mobility? 

And you said in order to promote active Mobility, We need to have this, you know, regulation. 

Like in Japan. 

Before you can buy, you have to prove that you have parking space. 

Well, I mean having informal spaces doesn't Just about What is the reason, though. 

That's that's sort of the context, right? 

So, if somebody said I want to propose this, And what would be the argument against it in Manila? 

Is your family Drive? 

What would it say, He said? 

Okay, good, But it increases the cost of driving, Right? 

That's the whole reason I'm doing it, so people feel like, why am I paying for the extra cost When there's a lot of space already, But what else though, but why, why, like Shanghai or Tokyo or Japanese cities, do it? 

Well, it's not just too many cars. 

Yeah, it's limited space. 

Yeah, it's too many cars, yes, but it goes back to like the fact that there's so little space, Right? 

It's so little space. 

Um, But can you say that for other places that? 

Oh, there's so much space, so this regulation would not work. 

I mean 80 regulation, by the way, has its cost Regulation. 

Sounds good, but remember, you need to enforces right, and for you need to enforce the law. 

The cause of enforcement could be very high. 

Like, if you already. 

If you assume that there's so much space of parking, What's the point of of trying to prove it? 

You just add more costs, Right? 

Because, like, you know, Japanese, um, Houses are so small, Hey, and because land is so expensive there, if you get a lot, you know, a space in your house. 

You can prove that. 

But here, I mean, houses are bigger, and there's more space. 

So, it means that The the benefit Of of reducing the traffic Is perhaps less than the cost of enforcing the law, Right? 

If there's so much space already, If if If you in, if you tell people to find a parking lot space before that, It would just add more word To the driver. 

It could work beneficially, Because then people feel like, oh my God, this is too much work, And they don't draw it could. 

But most of the time, that's not the case because driving, I think. 

People need to drive. 

People need to drive, So if you're not gonna increase, you know the cost of the car, You know, or if if you're not gonna increase the cost of parking so high that they feel like, oh, my God, I cannot drive, Then increasing the cost of parking by chart by allowing by forcing people to prove they have parking spot. 

It doesn't make any difference Because the because driving or owning a car. 

It's such a inelastic behavior. 

People who drive will continue to drive. 

It's not like, we're going to change quickly to other modes of transportation, Cuz. 

So in elastic by that inelastic behavior, Charging parking a little more Would not change Behavior much, but it would just add the You just add more costs to the consumers Versus in Japan, Right? 

If they can prove That they have parking spot. 

It means that they have enough money Starting space Right, which means You don't need to actually charge other things Because they have enough money to get the parking lot. 

It's like in Hong Kong. 

Ask you know if you have a friend coming from Hong Kong. 

Don't ask about the car As whether to have a parking lot, And that's wealth automatically. 

Seriously, it's not. 

How big is your apartment? 

Just ask your friend. 

Do you have a parking lot Before going out on a date with a Hong Kong person? 

Don't ask for a ring, not ask for, you know, a car? 

Do you have a parking lot if you have a parking lot? 

Let's go out for a date. 

You know, the signaling of fact is so great. 

You know, the signaling of fact is so great. 

Okay, so anyway, So that's one now. 

10 years ago, maybe 15, And? 

10 years ago, maybe 15, And right now, it's in most cities around the world. 

There is this regulation called minimum parking requirement Minimum parking requirement. 

Do you know what it is Minimum parking requirement? 

If you've read my paper, you should be able to answer it. 

But what is it minimum parking requirement? 

So, when you construct something, maybe, Uh, perfect place to wait for parking, right? 

In any City, Yeah? 

In any City. 

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it depends on the type of building use, You know, but usually it's proportional to the size of the building, right? 

If you build a bigger building, Then you need to increase the number of parking spaces. 

Can you quickly sort of guess what type of What type of building requires the most? 

Not Hotel. 

No, it's retail. 

Yeah, it's retail, usually retail, But hotels could be dependent depend depends on the type of hotels, but I'm talking about the regulation. 

I'm not talking about the actual provision actual provision, Then again depends on the type of establishment, Right, like luxurious condos would have more Right? 

Cuz you assume that your um, you know, residence would drive more Right. 

Why Do? 

Why Do people we have minimum parking requirements? 

To reduce on-street parking, Right? 

Because you don't want the people who are using the building Living in the building To park elsewhere, Right? 

So, the minimum parking requirement is actually a quote. 

Unquote, good or well intended measure Because it aims to reduce The negative effects of Hawking On the neighborhoods. 

Yeah, so it's supposed to be like that. 

It's supposed to be, um, You know? 

A good measure To prevent the negative. 

Are externalities? 

A parking onto other people who are not in the in the building In a way, Um, minimum. 

Pumpkin refinement is a measure that quote unquote, Um, Internalize the social costs of parking. 

Internalize as in the people who benefit Would pay for the cost, Right? 

So, think about it. 

We don't pay for it, but the costs. 

We don't pay for it, but the costs On other people, Right? 

So, this is negative externality automatically, Like, like, driving like, you drive By driving. 

You already create negative externalities, not just pollution, but also, you're limiting one space, right, reducing one space to other people. 

But parking is the same. 

But parking is the same By having minimum parking requirement. 

You force the developers and the owners and the users of the buildings to assume or take, Uh, um, Uh, responsibility for the cost, Right? 

Because if they want a parking lot or parking space, they have to pay for that space in the building. 

They can no longer externalize or put the external cost on the society by parking elsewhere. 

So, in a way, minimum minimum parking requirement is a is a measure to internalize the social costs to the society. 

So that was the way we thought about, uh, minimum parking requirements before. 

Why now? 

A lot more economists. 

Planners Want to reduce or get rid of minimum parking requirements. 

Yeah, You first, Right? 

So, parking, if it's available. 

It's sort of in an incentive for people to drive, Right? 

So, when there's parking like, oh, convenient, Let's Park, uh, let's drive, so we can park, Right? 

Cuz I, I hear all the time. 

Now, like, oh, I don't want to drive because I cannot find any place to park People. 

Don't say, oh, I don't want to drive because it's far Right, right? 

Mostly, it's like, uh, I don't want to drive because I cannot find parking. 

I cannot drive because traffic is bad. 

That's fine. 

That's usual, but a lot more people are now saying, It's okay if you're stuck in the traffic Because you can still listen to the music. 

It's your space, but if you cannot find parking, people are more agitated. 

Did somebody have done some experiments actually? 

The mood of getting stuck in the traffic versus the mood of looking for parking space, You know. 

It's so interesting, right? 

I mean, that's why you know if I were to go back to, um, you know, never. 

But if I were to go back to my um doings at undergraduate. 

Again, I either do with either studies psychology or cognitive science because it's so interesting. 

So, how? 

The feeling of getting stuck in the traffic and the feeling of looking for space? 

The feeling of getting stuck in the traffic and the feeling of looking for space. 

But for those of you who drive, you drive. 

So Right, I'm like going to like, exactly. 

I want to be done, right? 

So it takes like I want you because you feel like, sorry, yeah. 

Add to that early starting traffic. 

If you go for a new progress, but if you start finding company, you are going mobile, You're stuck. 

Yeah, And yeah, so that's the experiment that I think Donna shoots and his. 

You know, students have done, Um, Parking is looking for parking spot. 

It's so wasteful, It's so wasteful, and people spend a lot of time. 

I just feel like you're already there. 

You're already there. 

Why not there yet, right? 

Yes, So psychologically. 

It's fascinating to think about parking space All right. 

So, so One reason, Uh, A lot of planets now want to rethink minimum parking requirements is because they realize that Parking holds the key to the heart of a driver. 

Like, if you, if you make parking more expensive, people are willing to pay for the tolls, Right? 

People are willing to pay for the express point because they they know that they can get faster From that benefit from paying. 

But packing, though, right, if you cannot get it, you cannot get it. 

You're stuck, Right? 

So, at that time feels forever. 

Think about driving, you drunk, you see. 

I drive a little bit now, so I know, right? 

So, That's my planners. 

Now in other places, obviously not Thailand. 

Eureka, We have to do something with parking, Right? 

So a lot of cities around the world now. 



Yesterday 3:28 PM
Okay, so a lot of cities around the world now. 



Yesterday 3:28 PM
Either getting rid of minimal parking requirements Or reduce minimum parking requirement, And London and several other places around the world. 

Maybe you have seen it Actually? 

Maximum parking Requirement instead. 

In this building, you cannot have more than dot dot dot spots Because they want to discourage the use of driving and Market They don't. 

Honestly, they care less about her cake, but they think of parking as a way to Right. 

Like, like, okay, I want to give you my hand. 

There's less parking there, so maximum parking requirement becomes an interesting experiment in different places Instead of minimum parking requirement. 

Yeah, so Yes, sure, um, right now, because I'm using, So I feel like, well, yeah, you're willing to pay. 

You're welcome to pay, Right? 

That's another part now. 

Well. 

That's another part now. 

Well, we have been arguing for, um, The we, as my colleague and I try to convince that we should do something about minimum parking requirements. 

But obviously, People still argue that wait. 

If you don't have minimum parking requirements, Developers which just built a building with fewer Fucking spots spaces. 

And that's gonna create a lot of problem on street parking problem. 

What would be what would be your? 

What would be what would be your What? 

What's your thought about this, me know? 

I'm parking requirement. 

For me, Like some office building or something. 

That office will be include have some responsibility, but you go beyond me, but usually it's about enforcement of on-street parking in other countries and other cities. 

That kind of behavior is not accepted anyway on street parking, so the police will charge them. 

So, you have to choose between. 

You're paying for parking or paying for the fine. 

By the way in Chinatown, Um, some people are willing to pay for the tickets because it's cheaper than parking garages Because you can only find people once a day. 

You cannot give double tickets by law, You know what I mean, like, like, so the fine is, say, 200 baht For parking there. 

If you keep parking there for the whole day, It's parking fee for only 200 Baht in the middle of yamarad, Right? 

You pay for the whole day for 200 baht. 

You pay for the whole day for 200 baht, So in other places, what do they do not Thailand, but in other places, what do they do Other cities? 

Right, so that's one okay. 

But what else In other places? 

Paris, London. 

What did he do? 

What do you do in other places like a car parked on the street, thinking that, oh, I could just pay the fine? 

It wouldn't work in other places Towing. 

There is a business of Towing Just tow it away. 

Yeah, just throw it away. 

Like, can we do it in Thailand? 

So you pay for the ticket, but then you pay for the towing company. 

Usually, I don't know in other places. 

But in the US, it's private towing company, So they give the authority or the business to the towing company And the towing company, But get the money from the one who violated The traffic regulation. 

It's a lot of money then. 

So, yeah, go ahead to go get your car exactly, Exactly? 

So that's that's why, unfortunately, we don't have that business here. 

I keep telling like we should do that, Right? 

And it would be a lot of good business. 

I would get into the towing business. 

Yeah, it's a long story, but anyway, Argue again Four or against minimum parking requirement. 

Why would you want to do it? 

Why would you not want to do it? 

To live there Next to it. 

There will be spaces for puppy and, Well, that's interesting. 

So, Minimum parking requirement Basically states that if you build, say, 100 units, you have to have parking for, say, 30 species, Right. 

In reality, what do you think has happened? 

No, no, you cannot do 10% because You wouldn't get the permit if it's only 10% right, cuz, I mean, when you submit your plan to the city Authority. 

They look at your plan, the floor plan, right, they said. 

Why are there only 10? 

No, usually. 

It's not that If it's minimum parking of 30%, they have to get 30. 

I mean, afterwards, they can change it. 

Maybe, yeah, but they're this very little case like that. 

In reality, what? 

What do you think Is happening here in Bangkok? 

Anybody staying in a condo or something? 

Yeah, so how? 

What's the percentage? 

40%. 

That's more than the minimum parking requirement before my first. 

Yeah, Well, I mean, is, is, the is, is the parking space, um, First come, first server. 

Is it allocated first conversion? 

So, what happened to the 60% of people who So? 

So, I'm not sure if 100 yeah, like, what if everybody gets a car? 

I see some places they charge for. 

Okay, so that's one. 

But, what do you think is really happening in in other places? 

Can you guess what kinds of Condos would provide more or less? 

Yeah, Yeah, Luxury condos near prompong, and all that 100% You go to, um, condos around retinamry. 

It's 200%, Meaning, and two is little. 

Actually, there was a I forgot which project it says that Guaranteed four spots per unit. 

Oh, obviously, this is like, you know, 2 $2 million dollars up, right? 

That's cheap already for that area, right? 

So sorry, I need to get started. 

So, you're right, that The more luxurious condos would even care about minimum parking requirement. 

Because parking is part of the attribute, it's their selling point, right? 

So minimum parking requirements to actually not matter at all. 

For condo developers In general In general, But why would you argue otherwise? 

Why would you argue otherwise? 

Why would you want to still get rid of Minimum parking requirement anyway? 

I mean in London. 

I think they have maximum right, but when, when I propose maximum parking requirement, developers freak out. 

They said, no, Right. 

You cannot do that. 

Okay, But why would you want to get rid of minimum parking requirements before The hockey itself was threatened on the throughput of the road? 

Not that It's, it's it's, that's correct. 

But the argument for reducing or getting rid of minimum parking requirements has something to do with the cost Of space. 

Think of a building, And if 30% Of your floor space is dedicated to Cars, You're losing The space for rules. 

For rooms, Obviously, for rich? 

For rooms, Obviously for rich people. 

If they drive you want to, they don't care they want. 

They want the space for their fancy cars, so they're willing to pay more, Right? 

But when it comes to lower Income Or apartments or any buildings that people are not going to drive anyway, Requiring parking actually adds more cost To the provision of housing. 

Yeah, so some places now link parking with housing cost, All right. 

So, like, for example, one parking space, we have calculated it For a condo Is usually about three minimum 300 to 400,000 baht. 

It's pretty expensive. 

Obviously, if your condo is 10 million bar or 15 or 20 or 60, this is nothing. 

But if your condo Is only one million bar, only one million Baht and the cost of providing parking is 300 000. 

So, the argument of reducing or getting rid of minimum parking requirements? 

So the argument of reducing or getting rid of minimum parking requirements Is that it would help Developers Add more units To their buildings And potentially reduce the cost of housing. 

And that is the argument. 

In addition to reducing the Reliance on driving Right, so parking actually has Housing affordability implications, Right? 

We're not poor, but low-income people they still cannot reduce the cost construction. 

We're not poor, but low-income people. 

They still cannot reduce the cost construction Because they're required to provide parking, Right? 

So, the argument here is that let the developer decide how much parking they want. 

Let the residents know That. 

That's how little or how much parking there is in that building, While making sure that they cannot claim that, oh my God, there is no parking for me. 

You know that when you bought, you know you buy the condo, Right? 

So, that's sort of the logic that that gets discussed. 

Why do you think people are against this? 

Yeah, By the way, this proposal was, Um, no, actually. 

It's not fully yet. 

Um, Okay. 

So, let me tell you what's happening in Bangkok. 

So, the the most recent draft of the of the Bangkok plan, Um, in which I'm in the committee, Um, For which I was in the committee. 

There is a proposal. 

If the building Is Within sun zone of A transit station, The transit station Tod, They don't have to. 

They can reduce The parking As long as They provide other benefits to society, Such. 

As You know, like a plaza in front, Um, uh, public parking. 

I don't know what it was, but you know I should share what what they say now, having been, Um, following the last very last one. 

I sh, I should, But anyway, so they tight now. 

Um, tight parking, Two Tod Anything that's accessible by train. 

They can reduce the number of parking. 

Thinking, Thinking, Whether or not it would, you know, be effective. 

We don't know, thinking that some developers may not may want to Target just people who take the BTS or the MRT, And those people are not going to drive. 

Well, I think I should, um, You know. 

Tell the committee again. 

That wouldn't probably happened in city centers. 

Our analysis. 

Almost 10 years ago, I think, um, Eight years ago, show that the closer a project or the, you know, a condo close to the city center, The more parking There is. 

Isn't that like, sad? 

Yes, so, so, so, yeah, when you have time, take a quick look at a paper We actually analyze condos, And we have the data of how many, how much parking there is for each condo? 

And we know where they are Right. 

And then we look at where they are in terms of like City Center. 

The, you know, the the first layer of the Suburban area and the outer layer, right. 

Three different layers, and we look at how close they are to a train station. 

What we realize was that in the inner part of Bangkok? 



Yesterday 3:47 PM
What we realized was that in the inner part of Bangkok? 



Yesterday 3:47 PM
The closer you are to the city center, the more parking spaces the the condo provide And the closer you are to the BTS or MRT station. 

The more parking They provide, Which is totally opposite to what we would like, right, because we would like people in the city close to the Jobs to take public transportation, And we want people who live in a condo close to the transit stations to take the transit station. 

I remember the idea of access in egress right at the beginning of the class. 

I told you about right, But that's not happening. 

The condo that is in the city center and close to BTS or MRT station provide more parking. 

Yeah, It goes back to the land market. 

The closer to the city center land is more expensive, So if land is more expensive, what did he do capitalization, Right? 

You have this much lamb. 

Lamb is so expensive, it's the fixed cost. 

If you build very little, you're not going to make profit. 

You have to build so high up If you feel so higher And people who stay. 

There are not the poor, Then they drive. 

You need more cars, Right? 

So, that's why The closer to the city center, the more parking developers decide to provide because they think that the clients the residents would want to drive same thing with condos Clues to BTS stations. 

The closer to the BTS station, the more expensive The lad becomes, Right. 

The more expensive, The more rich people the richer people can live there, and the rich people would have more cars. 

The vocalypse would think, oh, Because my clients are rich, they're not going to take the BTS. 

They're not going to take the bus, so I have to provide more parking spaces, so that's sort of the logic, right? 

So, we, we did not. 

Only the, you know, data analysis. 

We interviewed as well, and that's how developers think They think, like, oh wait, because land is so expensive, we cannot, you know, make affordable housing make money. 

Margin is too low, Right? 

Come with a lot of parking spaces at the same time. 

Come with a lot of parking spaces at the same time. 

Yes, Maya, sorry. 

A little developments. 

Oh, Good question. 

Good question, we don't know. 

We, we just use the proxy of the actual. 

So, so your your Your question is so good, it's it's very well taken. 

We didn't actually measure the number of cars in the condo. 

We couldn't. 

We only know the number of parking spaces, So it could be that bad condo has 100 parking spaces, but a lot of them were speculation Airbnb forests. 

We don't know. 

We don't know how many actual cars were parked. 

Yeah, so good point. 

Um, but yeah, we just, but the survey that we did. 

We found the different survey that we did. 

We found that people who actually live in there and and own the car still drive the cars, Right? 

It's not like they parked the cars and they go to the BTS and take Of the BTS, though they actually use the cars, even though you know their condos is like 200 meters from the BTS. 

All right, We. 

All right, We have nine minutes. 

So, by the way, minimum maximum parking space, uh, maximum parking requirement is so unpopular. 

Only the most radical, you know, a city or town can really implement it. 

In fact, there is a story of A mayor in a town, um, somewhere in the United States. 

People used to be able to park the car everywhere, And then he started charging people for parking. 

He lost the subsequent election. 

He lost the election. 

Now, it's a local election granted, but he lost the election because people hate when the thing that they feel like, is there right is taken away. 

Yeah, like, Bangkok. 

By the way, An electoral story. 

If you want to read, there's a really good Phd dissertation done by a student of mine And an engineering. 

He looked into parking situations in Bangkok. 

We used to have parking. 

You don't see parking meters in Bangkok, right, but we used to have parking meters in Bangkok. 

I think I told you the story that some residents Would would just at night go out. 

And You know, uh, destroy the parking meters because they don't want to pay. 

And that's also because we didn't have or we still do not have a residential parking permit. 

People don't want to pay for parking. 

Like, look around, You know, On street parking everywhere, All right. 

So, my question would be, How would you solve this? 

Yeah, of course. 

I live near the angel for two stops from there. 

Yeah, Is to break the logic value, says people living in a city center living around 3 years. 

They have their very condominium have much more space, because if you, if you plan on place on every and area like That area is a little bit far away from the 600 and rich people living there and then they have more than and then they can have more fucking laws just on that line, and then the term will be less, but it's, it's, um, you know. 

David is based on the concept of Garden City, right? 

It was built a long time ago. 

I don't think you know in a city. 

With so many people moving in, I mean, that's a very high soul High Society area daily and show food you. 

You look at the whole the big buildings, right? 

So those are, you know, even in Japan, those are really rich people? 

Um, So I guess in that case, but when cars are becoming cheaper, It's not just the rich people who can afford to drive, right? 

So anybody can drive a car. 

Now, can't afford to buy a car now, so it's a little tricky To find land for, you know, people to to live. 

Like, like, you, you go to the suburbs of Bangkok. 

You see a lot of gated communities. 

It's the same thing people drive there, right? 

So, But that's not solving the the issue of parking. 

I mean providing more space. 

It's almost like building more roads, Right? 

It may be empty for a while, but the rebound effect Will be such that after a while, there will be Congestion again, And we know that we know that, you know, it's induced demand right. 

And by, by this time, I hope you understand the concept of induced demand. 

You build a road, Everybody drives fast. 

Everybody wants to drive, and then everybody gets stuck, Right? 

Is that cycle at first? 

The road is huge, Fewer cars, but people think, oh, my God, you can drive fast. 

People drive the car or own the car, drive the car, and eventually you will be stopping it Right. 

Pocket is the same. 

First, you provide parking. 

Then everybody buys a car. 

Everybody drives and you will have limited space for parking again, right? 

So, that's the internal logic and the eternal problem Of this Supply side solution. 

They call it right. 

Supply size solution will not be able to keep up with the induced demand Perpetuate, So that's why, I mean, next class. 

I think we'll talk about travel demand management, but But how would you solve Bangkok's, um, you know, uh, parking problem? 

Where would you start? 

We have four minutes. 

I need your ideas. 

So I can tell to their governor if he's going to run again. 

Oh, you start char People there. 

Yeah, I'm talking about, like, charging, parking, I'm. 

Yeah, I'm talking about, like, charging, parking. 

I'm not talking about providing more in parking. 

Yeah, but we were getting away from supply side intervention, Cuz we know that supply side intervention in the medium and long term doesn't work. 

And so we want the demand side solution, Your strategist. 

You have to come up with some strategy. 

Well, how would you do it? 

Well, it doesn't work because, you know, some people keep, you know, crashing it. 

They don't want to pay. 

You do it again, all right. 

Well, okay, introducing some high tech like, you know, in the case of London Singapore, There's really no meter. 

At this point, it's all like, Is the cell phone. 

And it's um, you know, it's like a sensor, You know, in Boston, um? 

Yeah, there's no friction there. 

Yeah, there's no friction there And, and, you know, like, one thing interesting was that when you put a coin in And say, you know, you are loud for 30 minutes. 

But even though you park for five minutes and there's 25 minutes left, right, somebody else will come in and doesn't have to pay right for free. 

It happens all the time, but with a cell phone in the sensor, you cannot do that. 

The moment the car leaves Set zero again. 

Exactly. 

How would you do it? 

Okay, all right, we don't have a lot of time. 

Well, one strategy is basically the one argument against. 

This is because the government doesn't have And money to invest. 

The government doesn't have the capacity to enforce, Cuz it requires enforcement, right, who's going to enforce it? 

So, so a lot of cities around the world now Do a PPP approach. 

So, let the private sector invest in the technology. 

Invest in the infrastructure and do Revenue sharing With the government That's has been a successful strategy. 

Others same Because there. 

Others same Because there's business people wanting to make money for parking. 

I kept telling them, like, you know, investing it. 

I kept telling them like, you know, investing it. 

And then, yeah, we'll see, I don't know. 

Maybe in five years when you come back visit, there could be some business there. 

Anyway, thank you so much, uh, next week, who's 22? 

Anyway, thank you so much, uh, next week, who's 22? 

And that's on TDM, All right travel demand. 

